

  
     1     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_AFG_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The twenty-first century has brought with it an ever-complex international arena, in which certain old conflicts have lingered and been exacerbated, while new threats and challenges — in the form of violent extremism and terrorism, displacement and migration, climate change and other challenges — have emerged, threatening all of humankind.


  
     2     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_AGO_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

During the seven decades of existence of the United Nations, there have been transformations in all aspects of life, such as a radical change in the nature of conflicts, international terrorism at unspeakable levels and unprecedented climate change.
Climate change is one of the most complex and urgent issues of domestic and foreign policy that we face today because of its impact on migration, food security, natural resources, the spread of epidemics and even on social and economic instability.
Thus the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a valuable, ambitious, balanced and fair tool for action whose entry into force will encourage collective efforts to control global warming.
The Republic of Angola emits only 0.17 per cent of all greenhouse gases.
However, the effects of climate change are already being felt by us in many ways, such as the deterioration and shortening of cycles of drought and heavy rainfall, which pose a risk to agriculture and to economic and social infrastructures.
It is therefore our intention to ratify the Paris Agreement as soon as possible as testimony to our unequivocal commitment and contribution to achieving its objectives.
The Conference represents an opportunity for us to adopt a new global urban agenda to promote strong links and synergies among urbanization, sustainable development and climate change.


  
     3     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ALB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Its engagement is focused on humanitarian aid; its contribution to regional stability and security; sustainable development; ratification of the Paris Agreement and the depositing of the instruments of ratification with the Secretary-General; the implementation of all of its commitments in the field of security and its appreciated and assessed contribution at the regional and international levels; and playing a proactive role on international platforms for the promotion and advancement of human rights.
I take this opportunity to announce that Albania is determined to be active at the third United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development, which offers a unique opportunity for the adoption of a new urban global agenda to strengthen relationships and synergies among urbanization and sustainable development and climate change.
The 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement are rightly considered to be opportunities to create a better life for present and future generations.
The implementation of these two international documents, in the context of which Albania is working proactively, is rightly considered a key global strategy for coping with climate change, achieving sustainable development and addressing international assistance and peacemaking and peacebuilding issues.
Albania was among those countries that quickly ratified the Paris Agreement, with the sole aim of contributing to the acceleration of its entry into effect and becoming active as soon as possible.


  
     4     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_AND_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

A few months later, the international community — thanks to the driving force and leadership of the French Republic and our colleague François Hollande — demonstrated its ability to give shape and content to the Goals with the drafting and signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The path to closing down is a reflection of fear and a recipe for populists and opportunists, who, when faced with an economic crisis of global scope, withdraw into protectionism; when faced with a threat to security of global scope, close their borders; when faced with a challenge such as climate change, adopt the selfish attitude of free riding, or expecting others to make the efforts.
It was in that same spirit of firm confidence in global action that we participated last year in the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which led to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In the coming weeks, our Parliament will be asked to ratify the Paris Agreement.
While populism would prefer to deny the scientific evidence of climate change and turn its back on the problem, we opt instead for commitments and specific measurable actions.
He has been a key player in the relaunching of the multilateral strategy in the fight against climate change, which culminated in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     5     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ARE_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We can do that through constructive strategies and programmes that aim to achieve sustainable development, eradicate poverty, fight inequality, address climate change, defend human rights and much more.


  
     6     
   
    
  

Climate change is the greatest, most important challenge that humankind faces.
We signed the Paris Agreement and we are proud of being one of the first countries to complete the ratification process.


  
     7     
 
  

The 17 Sustainable Development Goals to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice and tackle climate change by 2030 are of vital interest to the well-being of small countries, such as mine.
My small island State is also grateful to Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for his conscientiousness in promoting an agreement on climate change, which our nations collectively signed in Paris last year.
My Government was pleased to deposit its instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change earlier this week at here at Headquarters.
I remind the representatives of all nations gathered in this Hall that the present pledges to reduce emissions are still insufficient to limit global temperature rise to well below 2° Celsius and to build climate resilience.
At a rise of 1.5° Celsius, many of our countries — or parts of them — will still be washed away.
Temperatures continue to rise, as the bell is tolling.
The ravages of climate change will not end with the erosion of small island States, nor will its consequences disappear with the last surging tide.
Our small countries endure the problems caused by climate change not because we created it, but because we are the victims of the polluting profligacy of others.
That is why my Government has repeatedly proposed debt swaps for climate-change adaptation and mitigation.
We have proposed that we be provided with soft loans to stop further high debt accumulation while we build resilience to global warming and sea-level rise.


  
     8     
   
  

And yet despite setbacks to secure lasting peace, notably in Syria, over the past five years the United Nations system has produced a global Arms Trade Treaty, a pivotal global agreement on climate change, a transformational set of Sustainable Development Goals and a global blueprint for disaster-risk reduction.
Over the course of the next decade and beyond, working together to combat terrorism and conflict, prevent global health pandemics, ensure universal access to clean water and sanitation, and address climate change will require enhanced global cooperation.
I do not need to reiterate the significance and complexity of the threat of climate change.
The Paris Agreement last year was a shining example of global cooperation for the common good.
In a historic display of commitment, over 170 nations signed the Paris Agreement in New York in April.
We are committed to ratifying the Paris Agreement, and we are confident that we will meet our ambitious 2030 target of cutting our per capita emissions by 52 per cent — just as we will meet and beat our Kyoto Protocol commitments.
Australia has also increased the profile of climate change in our overseas aid programme, including through our $200 million commitment to the Green Climate Fund, because we know climate change amplifies many development challenges.
We are combining reductions in emissions with strong economic growth, which, from a rate of 2 per cent a year ago, has been running at 3.3 per cent over the past year.


  
     9     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_AUT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

His moral leadership has made it possible to achieve success, inter alia, through the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


 

I would also like to reiterate our confidence in Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
We are working together with every country on the planet to promote and implement a sustainable, durable regime on climate, as well as a legally binding instrument, and we must make sure we consolidate the gains achieved on that epoch-making day of 21 December 2015.
In a few months, Burundi will join those countries that have already ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     11     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BEL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Every continent is involved, and we know what the causes are: war, poverty, climate change.
The Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change have given us a proactive framework to continue making progress, and we should strive unstintingly to implement them.
I already have high hopes for his successor, who will, we hope, ensure the proper implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     12     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BEN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenge of climate change has led us to put our heads together and to take the decision to mobilize substantial resources.
It has become urgent to put in place a global programme to eradicate mass poverty, with the same determination that led us to hold the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I would like to state that my country is committed to contributing actively to the implementation of the decisions on climate change that were adopted during the Paris Conference.
I note that Benin has already signed the Paris Agreement and the ratification process is ongoing.


  
     13     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BFA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is a major concern for us.
Burkina Faso therefore welcomes the adoption of the Paris Agreement and calls for its ratification by all stakeholders.
We hope that that new environmental pact will result in the developed countries significantly reducing their carbon emission levels and making good on their financial pledges so as to strengthen developing countries’ resilience in the face of climate-related disasters.
The 2016 Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Marrakesh in November, will be a milestone in that regard.


  
     14     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BGD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change threatens many of our development gains.
The landmark Paris Climate Agreement recognizes the importance of adaptation, loss, damage and climate justice.
Bangladesh has ratified the Agreement, and we hope that the large carbon-emitting countries will ratify it soon.


  
     15     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BGR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We made history with the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
As President of Bulgaria, I was so proud to be among the first to sign the historic Paris Agreement during the high-level ceremony at the Secretariat in New York.
My country supports the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement.


  
     16     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BHR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We share the hope he expressed in his statement at the beginning of the general debate (see A/71/PV.8) that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change will enter into force by the end of this year.


  
     17     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BHS_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I end where I began, on de-risking and the issues of climate change.
That is so whether the issue is banking, financial services, climate change, sustainable development, financing for development, migration or simply survival.


  
     18     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BIH_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Poverty, hunger, disease, natural disasters and climate change afflict millions of our fellow human beings.
Unless we urgently take coordinated global action to reverse existing patterns of environmental degradation and climate change, we risk endangering a desired future for generations to come.
Fulfilling the commitments of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is critical to protecting development outcomes and adapting to the consequences of natural disasters and climate change through risk-informed development.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is already implementing its Climate Change Adaptation and Low-Emission Development Strategy, with the aim of becoming a viable and advanced green economy by 2025.
The main causes of modern conflicts are discrimination and exclusion, failures of governance, impunity, deep-rooted poverty and the lack of opportunity, aggravated by the growing effects of climate change.
We acceded to the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, the Addis Ababa Action Plan on Transformative Financing for Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Agenda for Humanity and the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
History will judge us by the difference we make in the lives of millions of people who are suffering from marginalization, discrimination, poverty, malnutrition, disease, natural disasters and climate change.


  
     19     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BLR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are all different as a result of a host of different factors — geography, climate, wars, epidemics, religions and many others.


  
     20     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BLZ_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In April, Belize was among the first countries to sign and ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We urge the international community to welcome Taiwan’s meaningful participation in the mechanisms, meetings and activities of the United Nations specialized agencies, including the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Setbacks in the global economy and externalities resulting from institutional policies, both public and private, to safeguard against financial and other security risks, as well as the adverse impacts of climate change, have all conspired against Belize’s sustainable development trajectory.


  
     21     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BOL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year has been the hottest in the history of the planet, and each year is hotter than the previous one.
We have to be alert and take immediate action to prevent the barbarism of capitalism from transforming the Paris Agreement into an agreement of lies and blackmail.
One out of every 100 people in the world is either a refugee or someone displaced by global warming, wars or imperialist invasions, as occurred in Syria, Iraq, Libya and other countries.


  
     22     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BRA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Tomorrow, I will formally deposit Brazil’s instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on climate change.


  
     23     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BRB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

It highlights the unique situation of the small island developing States and low-lying coastal States in the Caribbean.
The existential threat which climate change poses to small island developing States like Barbados is well documented.
The Prime Minister of Barbados was one of the leaders who participated in the formal signing ceremony of the landmark Paris Agreement on Climate Change in April.
At the national level, Barbados has developed a national climate change policy framework that works seamlessly with the Barbados sustainable development policy to address issues of climate adaptation and mitigation.


  
     24     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BTN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing for development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change stand as testimonies to our collective resolve to advance peace, security, human rights and sustainable development.
The risk of catastrophic climate change is no longer an abstract and long-term threat.
Climate change is real, and countries in special situations, such as the least developed countries (LDCs), landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) and small island developing States (SIDS), are the most vulnerable.
We have all experienced the impact of climate change, which is devastating and destabilizing, as can be seen from the frequency and intensity of recent weather events.
Bhutan’s commitment and contributions to the conservation and preservation of the environment, the protection of biodiversity and the mitigation of climate change have been widely acknowledged.
In 2009, we committed to remaining carbon neutral, but in reality we are carbon negative, and we look forward to ratifying the Paris Agreement on Climate Change upon completion of internal processes.


  
     25     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_BWA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like many nations, Botswana is already feeling the adverse impact of climate change.
Urgent and effective global action on climate change, mitigation and adaptation is required to avoid the catastrophic consequences of global warming.


  
     26     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CAF_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

On climate change and sustainable development, it is urgent that the world adopt sound policies that can generate growth and take into account the problem of climate change.
The commitments made at the Paris climate summit must be respected so as to bring about true sustainable development.


  
     27     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CAN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Earlier this year, we helped negotiate the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
As part of our commitment to implementing that Agreement, we announced that Canada would invest $2.65 billion over five years to fund clean, low-carbon growth in developing countries.


  
     28     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CHE_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Additional threats remain, such as natural disasters, climate change and its impacts and, indeed, antimicrobial resistance.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which seeks to limit global warming, is a strong sign of the commitment of States.


  
     29     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CHL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, we are facing an unprecedented environmental crisis that threatens life on earth, has medical, clinical, economic, climatic and environmental impacts and mostly affects the most vulnerable.
Similarly, we signed the Paris Agreement — the most ambitious and robust agreement in the history of multilateral negotiations on climate change.


  
     30     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CHN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Development cannot be sustainable if it is expensive, if it is driven by high consumption with high pollution and high carbon emissions, or if it depletes resources and strains the environment.
Only when we have a profound understanding of the implications of sustainability, make progress in poverty reduction at all levels, engage in North-South and South-South cooperation, adapt to climate change, and promote equal sharing and green development can we ensure that development will hold its ground and be sustainable.
They also need to jointly tackle climate change and work for the Paris Agreement to be universally accepted and take effect at an early date.
Developed countries need to play a leading role, deliver on their emissions-reduction pledges and help developing countries improve their capacity to mitigate and adapt to climate change.


  
     31     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CIV_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Here, I remind the Assembly of the commitments made in July 2015 in Addis Ababa at the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, and also those made regarding Goal 17 of the SDGs, as well as such specific instruments as the Green Climate Fund.
Our true aspirations for sustainable development must also be mindful of the environment and our determination to combat global warming.
We paved the way in Paris, and we must all implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and honour our commitments.
My country’s implementation of the Paris Agreement is under way.


  
     32     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CMR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Finally, I must mention the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, prepared at the twenty- first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     33     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_COD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is based on a long-term view and a strategic framework to ensure that our policies and actions align with the issues of climate change as well as the priorities of the African Union’s Agenda 2063, which has committed us to a process aimed at raising the Democratic Republic of the Congo into the middle-income-country category by 2021, the emerging-country category by 2030 and the developed-country category by 2050.
Our planet is confronting an unprecedented environmental challenge in the form of climate change, which has a direct negative impact on the quality of our lives and which mortgages the very future of humankind.
That is why, after having actively participated in the negotiations and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, through the intervention of its Head of State, signed the Agreement on 22 April here in New York.
I also recalled the huge importance of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and welcomed the adoption of the New York Declaration, which provides us with the strategy for managing the large-scale displacements of refugees and migrants, by noting the need to tackle the root causes of those evils.


  
     34     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_COG_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, the efforts of our Government today require the support of the international community, specifically through financial mechanisms such as the Green Climate Fund, the Blue Fund, the Adaptation Fund and the Green Economy Fund in Central Africa.


  
     35     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_COL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is now before Congress to be enacted into law.


  
     36     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_COM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let me also hail the efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
As he nears the time to relinquish his duties, I wish to join in the unanimous tributes to his commitment to promoting peace, development and fighting climate change.
Furthermore, the ambitious new long-term programme that we adopted last year to improve the lives of our population and to protect the planet for future generations enables us to optimistically perceive a future when we can reduce poverty, improve health and education, build a more sustainable habitat, fight climate change and protect our oceans and forests.
All that is so we can deal successfully with the emerging problem of climate change.
Getting back to the theme of the Sustainable Development Goals, I want to pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. François Hollande, President of the French Republic, and congratulate him on the success of the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
His commitment and capacity for mobilization enabled the eventual adoption of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     37     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CPV_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a small island developing State, Cabo Verde greatly appreciated his dedication to building a better world, in particular his contribution in successfully organizing and holding the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States, held in Samoa, and for bringing about the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sutainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
With regard to the Paris Agreement, Cabo Verde is pleased with the number of States that have ratified it since April.
As was highlighted in the high-level thematic debate on human rights last July, under the theme “Human rights at the centre of the global agenda”, the challenges associated with climate change, terrorism, violent extremism, conflicts and humanitarian crises require not only coordinated actions on all levels, but also the continuous fostering of good governance and the rule of law.
The devastating consequences of natural disasters resulting from climate change, which have a significant impact on the poorest and most vulnerable countries, remind us of the urgency of implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the importance of implementing the recommendations of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030.
Developing a low-carbon economy and creating resiliency and capacity to adapt are no longer just an option for many.
They have become essential requirements to build a sustainable economy, particularly in island and archipelago countries, whose survival is being threatened by climate change.


  
     38     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CRI_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Costa Rica reiterates the urgency of providing assistance and the need to ensure the protection of and respect for the human rights of people who have been forced to leave their homes in search of safe havens for themselves and their families, as a result of armed conflict, violence, natural disasters or the effects of climate change that threaten their access to the most basic means of survival.
The complex situation concerning the wave of migrants will only be exacerbated by the effects of climate change.
Floods, droughts and the rise in sea level will force people to pick up and move within their country and abroad.
It fills us with immense pride that the Paris Agreement negotiations were led by a Costa Rican woman, Christiana Figueres, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change until early July, a woman with immense diplomatic capabilities who showed us that when we work together, with commitment and a focus on the common good, we can restore hope and work towards a better world.
The Paris Agreement must enter into force immediately, and we have an obligation to increase our ambitions with time.
We therefore aspire to become a laboratory for the deep decarbonization of the world economy and a green hub for management, innovation and the transfer of knowledge, with early action built upon existing achievements.
With our planned nationally determined contribution, we will work to achieve our national aspiration to steer the economy towards carbon neutrality by 2021, as part and parcel of pre- 2020 voluntary actions, and we have strengthened our long-term commitment to the deep decarbonization of the economy.
The compensatory effects of our forests are accompanied by emissions reductions in critical sectors such as transport, livestock and waste.
We have set an absolute emissions limit for 2030, which is equivalent to a 25 per cent reduction in emissions compared with 2012.


  
     39     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CUB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The year 2015 was also one of the worst in terms of climate change, with mounting global temperatures, the melting of the polar ice caps, the rise in sea levels and an increase in greenhouse-gas emissions.
Under these circumstances, we reiterate our solidarity with the small island developing States, especially in the Caribbean, which are the most deeply affected by climate change and for which we demand fair, special and differential treatment.
While we all expect to see some progress in the fulfilment by industrialized countries of the obligations entered into under the ambiguous Paris Agreement on Climate Change, only tangible data on financing and transfers of technology to developing countries can justify hopes for the survival of the human species.


  
     40     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_CYP_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In particular, I wish to commend him for his instrumental role in getting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted, for his work on the recent agreement on the Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework and, of course, for bringing the United Nations Conference on climate change to a successful conclusion through the Paris Agreement.


  
     41     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_DEU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Or do we move forward and work together to master the challenges of the twenty-first century, whether they be migration, climate change or terrorism?
We would also like to thank him for his commitment to the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which the German Parliament ratified earlier this week.


  
     42     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_DMA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), has set the stage for increasing international discourse and action in our fight against inequality, to combat climate change, to empower our citizens, to protect the vulnerable and to improve the lives of billions of people across the globe.
Additionally, as we focus our minds on the SDGs, we must also sharpen our focus on the impact that climate change continues to have on the development of SIDS.
More urgent and wide-ranging action is needed in the fight against climate change to ensure our very survival.
To that end, we look forward to building on the momentum of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change as we move on to the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Marrakesh later this year.
As many will recall, a little over a year ago the Commonwealth of Dominica was painfully reminded of the devastating impact of climate change.
One year on, we are making great strides and are on track to build back better and to build increasingly climate-resilient and adaptive infrastructure.
We continue to suffer the disproportionate burden and impact of climate change, which also severely undermines our efforts at sustainable development.
Also troubling are the slow-onset events and the extreme weather events that are brought on as a result of climate change.
We would be encouraged if the capitalization of this special natural disaster risk fund were to come from the parties to annex I of the Framework Convention on Climate Change and other major emitters, including voluntary contributors.
It would also help these climate-vulnerable countries to build increasingly climate-resilient economies and to identify vulnerable areas that need to be adapted and mitigated to better deal with any future catastrophic event.
The fund would also be used to finance climate-resilient projects and programmes.
The capitalization of the fund will come from Government revenue and returns from the Government’s investments in renewable energy projects that have already been implemented with grants and concessionary financing through the Green Climate Fund.
Assistance with developing sustainable agriculture, tourism and energy, especially with geothermal energy development, have set the platform for sustainable social and economic development, while at the same time combating climate change.
One such partnership exists with the Government of Austria, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the SIDS Sustainable Energy and Climate Resilience Initiative to create the Caribbean Centre for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency.
Collectively, we have the ability to solve the most difficult challenges of our time
The unprecedented pace of human advancement in the twenty-first century has demonstrated that we have the capacity and ingenuity to combat climate change and to develop means of production and consumption to sustain humankind, while at the same time protecting our planet.


  
     43     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_DNK_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the successful conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, as well as the first-ever World Humanitarian Summit, have demonstrated our ability to come together to address today’s global challenges.
A pre-eminent challenge on the path to sustainable development is climate change.
We must all take up the challenge of turning the commitments set forth in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change into action, to bring about immense and positive change for the planet and for people.
The Danish Government will put forward a motion for ratification of the Paris Agreement in the Danish Parliament on 5 October.
Investments will be made across the Sustainable Development Goals — to improve energy, climate mitigation, industry, infrastructure, food production and health care in order to generate sustainable growth, jobs and tax revenue in developing countries.
He has tirelessly led the way to finding viable solutions to global challenges, in particular climate change, which has been a journey that led us from Bali to Copenhagen and, finally, to Paris, and which resulted, last December, in an ambitious global agreement to fight climate change.


  
     44     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ECU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which took place in Paris, my country proposed the creation of an international environmental justice court to punish violations of the rights of nature and establish obligations in terms of ecological debt and consumption of environmental goods.


  
     45     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_EGY_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Last year we reached an agreement based on the principles of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
As Coordinator of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change, I reaffirm Africa’s commitment to confronting climate change, within the limits of its capabilities, and its aspiration to put into practice the implementation mechanisms of the agreement on the transfer of technology and sustainable financing.
Egypt has established a track for the Renewable Energy Initiative and presented it in the context of its leadership of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change, in implementation of the relevant African Union resolutions.
Efforts to address climate change must take into consideration equity and the right to development, as well as adherence to the principles of international law, the most important of which is refraining from harm; enhancing cooperation; and the participation of different countries in prospective projects, in accordance with the rules that govern international financial institutions, particularly the World Bank.


  
     46     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ESP_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In order to advance the cause that concerns us all, combating the effects of climate change is critical.
The upcoming twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Morocco, will offer an excellent opportunity to further strengthen our commitment.


  
     47     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_EST_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The first time I spoke here (see A/62/PV.5), I addressed climate change, conflict, refugees and — what was apparently a first at the General Assembly — cyberattacks as the continuation of policy by other means.


  
     48     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ETH_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is also a major priority, and we will expedite the process as soon as our Parliament opens its session at the end of this month.
There is no better testimony of the resolve that we have in that regard than the way in which we have handled the tragedies caused by the El Niño-Southern Oscillation.


  
     49     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_EU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Sustainable Development Goals can drive reform of the international system by offering an opportunity to address many problems in one process — insecurity, poverty, underdevelopment, climate change and uncontrolled migration.
Lastly, I would like to say a word about the fight against climate change, to which the EU is fully committed.
Europe has had a comprehensive climate-change policy in place for years.
Right now we are developing laws that will allow us to reach our ambitious target for 2030, and our ratification of the Paris accord will be completed soon.
The fact that the two biggest global emitters have ratified the agreement early is a positive sign.


  
     50     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_FIN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

During his time in office, he has been instrumental in setting an ambitious agenda for sustainable development and for tackling climate change.
The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development a year ago was a milestone, as was the conclusion of the Paris Agreement to combat climate change.
I have personally committed to reducing my carbon footprint by half over a decade by signing up with the Global Citizens Climate Pledge initiative.
The initiative was made global a couple of weeks ago in an event hosted by the Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Gender equality and the political, economic and social empowerment of girls and women are key drivers for sustainable development and for combating climate change.


  
     51     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_FJI_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have collectively pledged to mobilize the global community to end all forms of poverty, fight inequality and tackle climate change.
For a small island developing State such as Fiji, that is as pressing as the need to address the challenges of climate change and deal with the extreme weather events and rising seas that pose such a threat to our way of life in the small island developing States and other vulnerable parts of the world.
Fiji also comes to the seventy-first session with a plea to all nations that have yet to do so to ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We are alarmed by scientific predictions that the 2°C cap on global warming over pre-industrial levels agreed to in Paris is not enough to save us.
But if this is what awaits us as global warming triggers weather events that are more frequent and more extreme, then God help us.
Our message from the Pacific therefore is this: the 2°C cap is not enough.
We need the world to go one better and embrace the 1.5°C cap that we, members of the Pacific Islands Development Forum, called for in the Suva Declaration on Sustainable Human Development in the Pacific.
We also need deeper cuts in carbon emissions and more decisive global action than what we are currently witnessing.
But as a first step, I appeal to all Member States to ratify the Paris Agreement and to turn away from what I have termed “the coalition of the selfish” — those countries that would see vulnerable nations battered and submerged rather than alter their pampered, carbon-driven lifestyles.
Fiji will continue to play a disproportionate role in the international community in relation to its size, whether it be our continuing commitment to United Nations peacekeeping and sending our men and women in uniform to protect ordinary people in troubled parts of the world, or our lead role in drawing global attention to the urgent need for action on climate change.


  
     52     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_FRA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

First, I would like to ask all members to do everything possible to implement the historic Agreement that was signed in Paris on 12 December 2015.
The Agreement was historic because, for the first time, the assembled international community agreed to make a commitment to reducing global warming and mobilizing financing, while allowing the most vulnerable countries to make an energy transition.
The past two years have been the hottest known to humankind since records began.
But everyone here knows that it will come into force only if it is ratified by 55 per cent of countries, representing 55 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions.
Nothing would have been possible without the participation and the commitment of those two countries, which are the largest emitters of carbon dioxide.
The twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-21) was a conference of decisions.
It is a question of implementing the International Solar Alliance, fighting desertification, protecting the seas and also setting a carbon price.
However, the appeal I want to issue to the Assembly, following this climate agreement, is an appeal for Africa.
Africa is a continent full of promise, but its development could be hindered by climate change, migration, conflict, war and terrorism.
The United Nations has shown its effectiveness with the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which many thought was impossible.
That is why I want to appeal to all those here — to call for implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, for ensuring that Africa and all Africans have electricity and better development, and for peace in Syria, because it is so urgently needed.


  
     53     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_FSM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

After 10 years of service, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon deserves great praise for his effective leadership, during which he championed many issues important to small island developing States, including generating the political momentum needed to address climate change and his push to catalyse the initial capitalization of the Green Climate Fund.
five years ago, the small island developing States cried out for action against human-induced climate change, while stressing that we literally faced extinction as nations and as oceanic cultures, owing to surging sea levels and the related consequences.
However, even in the relatively short span of 25 years the relentless advance of climate change has outpaced our efforts to deal with it — so that today, while all countries must consider themselves vulnerable, the small island developing States are dealing with an already clear and present danger — the adverse impact of climate change.
The Group of Asia and the Pacific Small Island Developing States has long advocated for climate and security to become a regular focus of the Security Council.
The Group also submitted a proposal on the subject to the World Humanitarian Summit, calling for a special representative in the United Nations system to be dedicated to the issue of climate and security.
Momentum appears to be on our side, and we hope that the Secretary-General, while he is still with us, will appoint such a special representative, adding to his legacy as a champion of climate change.
This is the first year of implementation after the international community adopted a number of milestone agreements in 2015 — on disaster-risk reduction, financing for development, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
As for climate change, the United Nations remains the last and best hope for galvanizing the necessary political will and commitment for advancing our global agenda on climate change.
From this rostrum and elsewhere, leaders from small island developing States, like many others, have called upon the States Members of our Organization, especially world leaders, to step up and take charge by calling for the urgently needed mitigation and financing initiatives to implement climate-change agreements.
Current Government commitments fall considerably short of even reaching the 2°C goal that we agreed to in Paris.
The recent ratification of the Paris Agreement by more than 30 countries, including virtually all Pacific island countries, raises our hopes and expectations that others will soon follow suit.
On the issue of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, standing here one year ago, I described the Federated States of Micronesia’s long-standing efforts to amend the Protocol to phase down hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) use, and I thanked new supporters and noted that the proposals were finally bearing fruit (see A/70/PV.22).
HFCs are the fastest- growing greenhouse gases in the world.
They are also extremely potent, producing warming effects hundreds to thousands of times greater than those of carbon dioxide per ton.
Phasing down HFCs will help prevent warming emissions equivalent to almost 100 billion tons of carbon dioxide by 2050.
Thanks to the many countries that have supported the phase-out proposal, as set forth in the Montreal Protocol, that crusade has gained new momentum.
Climate change, oceans, health and human rights and partnership featured prominently on our agenda.
On climate change, the Forum reaffirmed its position that achieving the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting the average global temperature increase to 1.5°C degrees above pre-industrial levels is an existential matter for many Forum members, and that it must be addressed with paramount urgency.
The Forum also observed that the Paris Agreement must be brought into force before the end of 2016, or as soon as possible, even tomorrow.


  
     54     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GAB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would also mention the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Paris.
The entire world was pleased to see the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on 12 December 2015.
Gabon, strongly committed to countering global warming, made its contribution.
The Paris Agreement is a historic turning point in our quest for a more sustainable and caring world.
I welcome the remarkable momentum building in the international community, and I would like to believe that the Agreement will enter into force between now and the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 22) to the Framework Convention on Climate Change.
It is difficult today to speak of the results of COP 21 without mentioning the challenges facing the twenty-second session.
COP 22 is seen as an extension of COP 21.
As, I think, everyone will agree, if we are to fulfil our commitments in respect of sustainable development and tackling climate change, we need a peaceful society.
It thanks him for his leadership on issues as important as climate change, migration flows, humanitarian assistance, questions of peace and security, and the reform of the Security Council.


  
     55     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GBR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Others are new: global terrorism, climate change and unprecedented mass movements of people.
We will continue to play our part in the international effort against climate change, and, in a demonstration of our commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the United Kingdom will start its domestic procedures to enable ratification of the Paris Agreement and complete these before the end of the year.


  
     56     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GHA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015- 2030, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development and the Sustainable Development Goals represent four important, mutually reinforcing landmark agreements that open a new chapter in global development towards ensuring prosperity for our people and preserving our planet.
I am impressed by the level of commitment that the United States and China, two of the major emitters of greenhouse gases, have shown by agreeing to ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I have also signed the ratification instrument of the Paris Agreement and will take part in the event today depositing Ghana’s instrument with the United Nations.


  
     57     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GIN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Various crises and conflicts emerge and sometimes persist, making our planet ever more vulnerable to climate change.
A fund devoted to financing renewable energy in Africa has been put in place to collect contributions for Africa within the framework of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We thank him for his tireless efforts and dedication, particularly with regard to the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     58     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GMB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

“The Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which the Islamic Republic of the Gambia signed together with the entire membership of the United Nations, is a landmark in our human evolution.
“Although the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was a success, the magnitude and complexities of other challenges facing the world have again brought into sharp focus the role of the United Nations and its capacity to address and advance international peace, security and development.


  
     59     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GNB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world today faces a tremendous challenge: combating and overcoming the scourges of terrorism, drug trafficking, climate change and other evils that are ravaging our countries.
Guinea-Bissau welcomes the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and calls for its implementation as a key tool for regulating international dialogue and cooperation among States, which hold in their hands the fate of the planet.
Climate change poses an emerging risk for Guinea- Bissau.
We are a coastal country, with an island portion and a high risk of sea-level rise, which poses a great threat to a significant portion of our territory.
Therefore, climate change matters are some of the main priorities of our political action.


  
     60     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GRD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We live in a world that is plagued with many challenges: civil wars, famine, droughts, floods, the impacts of climate change, humanitarian and economic crises, and terrorism.
That conference was held in collaboration and partnership with the Governments of the Netherlands and Indonesia and with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Bank, the Global Forum on Oceans, Coasts and Islands, the Clinton Climate Initiative, the Caribbean Challenge Initiative and The Nature Conservancy.
Small island nations in the Caribbean and the Pacific must be lead advocates for oceans and climate change.
That initiative, called BluNet, will be showcased at Oceans Day during the twenty- second Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in November this year in Marrakesh, Morocco.
Grenada is almost 100 per cent reliant on imported fossil fuels for electricity generation.
We therefore call for easier access to the Green Climate Fund to support renewable energy projects in small island developing States.
In that regard, Grenada calls for a commitment from world leaders to deposit their instruments of ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change by the end of 2016.
We hope that the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties, which will be held in about six weeks, will build on the gains of the previous session and garner the necessary momentum to enable the full implementation of the Paris Agreement.
Grenada further calls upon the international community to work with Grenada and other small island developing States on innovative approaches to international climate financing, which would include catalysing private investment.
Like many small island developing States, we suffer from debt overhang, which limits the fiscal space needed to address climate challenge.
While the International Monetary Fund has consistently expressed satisfaction with Grenada’s response aimed at addressing the structural deficiencies that are both a symptom and a cause of that overhang, that response has, unfortunately, required a huge sacrifice on the part of our citizens, who are already suffering from climate change, fossil fuel dependence and the financial crisis.
Those three problems compound one another and collectively limit our ability to invest in climate action that can actually alleviate all three issues, which has created a vicious circle.
Working with partners, Grenada will optimize various leadership platforms to create practical, concrete initiatives to turn that vicious circle into a virtuous one, where climate action can catalyse a wave of public and private investment that can alleviate all three problems.
Such measures would help small States like Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique take action to combat climate change and its impacts in areas such as potable water supply, renewable energy and energy efficiency, climate-smart agriculture, climate-resilient homes and buildings and resilient coasts and oceans, to name a few.
When we observe the climate changes in our world today and their effects on humankind, we owe it to ourselves and succeeding generations to act with immediacy — we must act now.
We recognize the importance of regional cooperation and international partnerships in addressing the scourge of non-communicable diseases.


  
     61     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GTM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Guatemala reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations and reiterates its multilateral and peaceful mission, convinced that global challenges, such as security, development, respect for human rights and climate change, should be addressed through dialogue and collective negotiation, as part of the global system.
Being aware that it is impossible to achieve sustainable development if we do not ensure the preservation of our planet’s resources, my country did not hesitate in adopting the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which I had the honour of signing on 22 April in this very Hall.


  
     62     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_GUY_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Secretary-General’s courageous campaign to combat the adverse effects of climate change and his commitment to sustainable development have been transformative.
His labours bore fruit in the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in September 2015, and in the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in April 2016.
The 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement have had a massive and undeniable impact on the manner in which the world manages the environment.
The 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement are evidence of environmental common sense.
Our natural assets, our commitment to sustainable development, our contribution to conquering the adverse effects of climate change and our collaboration with the international community in seeking solutions to global threats have distinguished us an emergent green State.
It realizes that the establishment of a green State is consistent with building climate resilience while mitigating the effects of climate change.
Guyana promises to continue to work towards the Agenda’s goals, particularly by contributing to limiting increases in global temperatures, and to work towards a green path of development that is in accord with the Agreement’s nationally determined commitments.
Guyana, as a part of that Shield, is a net carbon sink.
It entered into an agreement with the Kingdom of Norway to provide the world with a relevant, replicable model of how the United Nations Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation and the Role of Conservation, Sustainable Management of Forests and Enhancement of Forest Carbon Stocks in Developing Countries (REDD-plus mechanism), the mechanism for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, can align the development objectives of forest countries with the world’s need to combat climate change.
We will fulfil our obligation under the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions set forth in the Paris Agreement.
Goal 13 of the Agenda calls for urgent action to combat climate change and its impact.
This goal envisages and encourages international cooperation to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and abate the adverse impact of climate change.
The Agreement obligates Member States to take action to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and foster climate resilience and low greenhouse-gas emissions development in a manner that does not threaten food production.
Guyana is developing a comprehensive emissions- reduction programme as part of its responsibility to contribute to global solutions in the face of the threat of climate change.
Guyana is pursuing a low-carbon growth trajectory to enhance its contribution to the campaign against climate change through the preservation of its forests, within the ambit of the REDD-plus mechanism.
It will contribute up to 48.7 million metric tonnes of carbon-dioxide equivalents to the global mitigation effort, through an avoided-emissions programme.
The Agreement on climate change and the Agenda both emphasize the importance of financial flows in supporting the efforts of States pursuing a green path to development, so that they can meet their adaptation and mitigation obligations and implement the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions.
However, its efforts — and those of other small States — will be derailed unless there is collective commitment by the greater part of the international community to collaborate with those States determined to pursue a low-carbon, low-emissions path to sustainable development and to stopping the rise of global temperatures.


  
     63     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_HND_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Three other issues deserve special attention in this debate at the United Nations: climate change, migratory flows and the rights of victims.
With reference to climate change, Honduras has suffered three consecutive years of a drought that has affected food production and endangered food security for nearly 250,000 families.
We are developing a comprehensive policy on the land, forests and water so that we can successfully confront the enormous challenges that countries like ours face in climate change.
This morning, we submitted to the Secretary- General our ratification instrument for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I wish to recall a statement I made at the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Paris, to the effect that the accounts were not clear, and I must reiterate once more that the accounts remain unclear.
On the issue of migration, the growing economy, the creation of economic opportunity, security and the response to climate change are all creating better living conditions for our people in Honduras, and with all that we are attacking some of the major causes of irregular migration.
The same holds true for climate change, which is a problem for all of humankind.


  
     64     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_HRV_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is a powerful weapon of mass destruction that is going out of control.
Climate change is also a risk multiplier for other security challenges, including large-scale migrations and regional instability born out of hopelessness and desolation.
We must ensure climate action and make sure that the recent Paris Agreement enters into force as soon as possible.


  
     65     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_HTI_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement on Climate Change perfectly illustrates the concept of a collective destiny for all peoples that lies at the heart of this Organization.


  
     66     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_IDN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, environmental degradation and climate change continue to accelerate, directly affecting island States and the most vulnerable countries.
Our nation is made up of thousands of islands, both large and small, and therefore we fully understand the impacts of climate change.
We continue to demonstrate our pioneering role in combating climate change through mitigation and adaptation efforts and in addressing ocean and maritime issues.
We signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and are on schedule to conclude the ratification process in due course.


  
     67     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_IND_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is yet another serious challenge we are having to confront.
In that context, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has championed a new concept, namely, climate justice.
In the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities has been acknowledged and accepted.
India has launched an ambitious domestic effort to transform our energy mix and attain 40 per cent energy from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030.
I assure the General Assembly that India will continue to play a leading role in combating climate change.
We have carefully chosen the date to submit our instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which will be 2 October, the anniversary of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi, who epitomized a lifestyle with the smallest possible carbon footprint.


  
     68     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_IRL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I will set out how the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) — which the United Nations agreed one year ago following a successful facilitation process shared by Ireland and Kenya — have the capacity, when implemented, to address many of the root causes of migration, by ending poverty, reducing inequality and responding to climate change.


  
     69     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ISL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have set goals to address climate change.
A large number of States have already ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, thus paving the way for its early entry into force.
His personal commitment to fighting climate change has been a key factor in our reaching agreement.


  
     70     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ISR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

If the United Nations spends so much time condemning the only liberal democracy in the Middle East, it has far less time to address war, disease, poverty, climate change and all of the other serious problems that plague the planet.


  
     71     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ITA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Also pressing are the risks connected with pandemics, which are sometimes exaggerated but very often constitute grave risks, as well as the risks connected to the environment, to which this community of women and men, together with my colleagues, was able to give a response by signing the important Paris Agreement on Climate Change this past April.


  
     72     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_JAM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, the time has come for the international community to similarly converge around a HIMIC initiative, underpinned by the principle that highly indebted countries that have undiversifiable structural vulnerabilities, such as small size or susceptibility to the effects of climate change, and that responsibly and faithfully service their debt should be facilitated with assistance in the form of investment, favourable trade, technology transfer, security cooperation and energy.
Jamaica will work with development partners to pursue debt-for-climate-change swaps.
This holds the potential of providing bilateral and multilateral relief for climate change adaptation and mitigation initiatives.
Such a mechanism has the potential to provide fiscal relief while helping to unlock pledged climate financing to fund adaptation and mitigation initiatives.
As a country vulnerable to climate, Jamaica will play its part to close the climate implementation gap, while at the same time addressing our debt overhang.
Another issue that demands continued cooperation at the global, regional and national levels is our response to climate change and the increasing occurrence of natural disasters, including extreme weather-related phenomena.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change, under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction provide us with a blueprint for action to ensure that our development efforts do not compromise the ability of future generations to enjoy a world in which their needs can be adequately met.


  
     73     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_JPN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Government of Japan will accelerate the work towards early conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and will carry out without fail its pledge to provide ¥1.3 trillion in assistance for developing countries by 2020.


  
     74     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KAZ_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Kazakhstan is firmly committed to being part of the solution to the global issue of sustainability and climate change.
Implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which we pledge to ratify well before the end of 2016, are vitally important.


  
     75     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KEN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The global community, cognizant of those challenges, has made important commitments by concluding agreements on the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa agreement on the African Union’s Agenda 2063.
We expect that the implementation of the SDGs will result in transformed societies, improved environmental and climatic conditions and global sustained economic growth.
We are acutely aware that the challenges we face in achieving our aspirations are not only political, economic and social, but also environmental and climatic.
Mr. Ban has been a great steward of the international community, a humble and dedicated Secretary-General to Member States, a standard bearer of human rights, a champion of development and climate change and a friend of not just Africa, but Kenya.


  
     76     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KGZ_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Kyrgyzstan supports the theme of our debate, “The Sustainable Development Goals: a universal push to transform our world”, which seems very timely to us in the wake of the Assembly’s adoption last year of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In Paris, we all worked together to reach a consensus on climate change.
Kyrgyzstan fully supports that global agreement, and yesterday we signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on the margins of the general debate.
In Kyrgyzstan, the effects of global warming are already leading to natural disasters and extreme situations, with fluctuations in the volumes of mountain rivers, excessive melting of glaciers and the degradation of unique mountain ecosystems.
We estimate that the annual damage from natural disasters in Kyrgyzstan amounts to about $35 million, rendering us in need of international assistance in adapting to climate change.
On top of that, climate change is threatening the biodiversity of our mountain ecosystems.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm our conviction that the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris climate agreement should remain a top priority in the international community’s coordinated initiatives.


  
     77     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KHM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I wish to share in the collective satisfaction following the agreement last December at the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
We also welcome the fact that the two principal contributors to global warming have confirmed their involvement and determination.
With the Paris accords, we were obliged to accept a perfect model of democracy that took no account of the specificities of our country or the human resources required to implement it.
Regarding climate change, I am pleased to announce that just yesterday we completed the procedure of ratifying the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     78     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KIR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The legacy he will leave is enshrined in the new sustainable development Agenda and in the Paris Agreement, the catalyst for global attention and action on climate change.
We note with grave concern the increasing security challenges facing our global family, from conflicts around the world, the scourge of terrorism, transnational organized crime, war and nuclear testing, mass movements of refugees and migrants, to the often unstated but invisible silent killer, the non-communicable diseases, the health of our oceans and other looming challenges and uncertainties, some with incremental but very real existential threats such as climate change.
Climate change is a global challenge that requires universal transformation.
Every year, my country comes to this family gathering with constant cries for help in stopping the momentum of global warming and in assisting countries like mine to adapt to the adverse impact of climate change.
This is an issue that cannot wait for the Paris Agreement ratification process to happen.
I came here straight from a meeting of our Parliament that was held because my people, especially our younger generation, are unremittingly protesting the increasing intensity of the effects of climate change.
The adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change last year gave humankind a sense of hope, embodying the global consensus that climate change is happening and must be resolved as soon as possible.
It is a major first step in global action to counter climate change.
In this regard, I am pleased to say that following our signing of the Paris Agreement in April, I had the honour yesterday of depositing my country’s instrument of ratification during the high- level event for the entry into force of the Agreement.
We are fully committed to the Agreement and to all climate-related undertakings aimed at ensuring that our global family addresses the root causes and impacts of climate change.
The Paris Agreement will not only help us address our challenges as a low-lying atoll nation already on the front line; it can also save others on the way to increasing vulnerability from ending up on the front
18/46 16-29553 line in the future.
This is an opportunity for us as leaders to push for an early entry into force of the Paris Agreement and transform our world for our generation and, more importantly, for future generations.


  
     79     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KNA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we have seen time and again, a climate event that lasts only a few hours can wreak havoc on every single aspect of life on our islands.
In the past we have asked that the international community address the issue of creating a strategy for the promotion of climate financing, and I once again reiterate that call.
It is meaningless to say that billions of dollars are available for climate financing if the mechanisms for accessing the money are opaque, prohibitive and extremely difficult to penetrate.
As the peoples of the world, we achieved a landmark climate deal at the Paris Conference on Climate Change.


  
     80     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KOR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In 2015 in this Hall, the international community shared its concerns on the state of the world: conflicts and civil wars, terrorism and violent extremism, climate change, epidemics and grinding poverty.
The sense of crisis paradoxically drew us together to achieve historic milestones, namely, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on climate change.
The SDGs and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change are inextricably linked to the future of our planet and our people.
In that respect, as the host of the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund, my Government is taking domestic steps to complete the ratification of the Paris Agreement as soon as possible this year.
I would like to commend his commitment and leadership, and his remarkable achievements in a range of areas, notably on climate change, sustainable development, gender equality, humanitarian assistance and management reform of the United Nations.


  
     81     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_KWT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

He has played a prominent role in enhancing the performance of the organs of the United Nations and in achieving major milestones, such as the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals and the signing of the global agreement on climate change.
In that regard, the State of Kuwait welcomes the two historic agreements on climate change, signed by Kuwait at this very rostrum in April, and the comprehensive and inclusive 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, whose Goals we hope will be achieved.


  
     82     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LAO_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

To name but a few, terrorism and extremism remain a threat to regional and global peace and security; more than 800 million people all over the world still live in extreme poverty; while natural disasters and climate change have inflicted tremendous damage on social and economic development in various parts of the world.
Against that backdrop, in recent years the international community has made collective efforts to respond to and address those challenges by adopting various measures and mechanisms, including cooperation frameworks such as the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda for financing sustainable development, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Programmes of Action for the least-developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States.
Climate change and more frequent and severe natural disasters have affected the national development and livelihoods of peoples all over the world.
Recognizing the importance of this issue, the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has formally joined the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I very much hope that the Paris Agreement will enter into force by the end of this year and will be effectively implemented.
For its part, the Lao Government has submitted its nationally determined contributions and integrated climate change, natural disaster risk reduction and management into its national socioeconomic development plan.


  
     83     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LBN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would also like to extend special thanks to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
Perhaps the most noble milestones were the signing by 175 States of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which took place in April, and the holding of the World Humanitarian Summit, which was held in Istanbul in May.


  
     84     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LBR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

With 43 per cent of the biodiversity in the West African region, Liberia is mindful of the need to protect the environment from the effects of global warming and climate change.


  
     85     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LCA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The current combination of the real impacts of global warming, the financial crisis and stagnant global economies has left many small island middle-income countries in a state of high debt and unemployment.
While we fully support the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its ambition to deal with global warming, we are patiently waiting for its financing to be agreed.


  
     86     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LIE_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I wish to pay tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.


  
     87     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LKA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In that regard, we recognize that economic development plays a key role, and that environmental sustainability, particularly the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, will remain a main pillar in our endeavour to bring about the necessary changes in my country.


  
     88     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LSO_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) last year and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change adopted at the recent Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change are notable landmarks that have cemented the role of the United Nations as the only forum at which collective diplomacy can bear fruit.
The theme chosen for the current session, namely, “The Sustainable Development Goals: a universal push to transform our world”, is most relevant and appropriate at this time when humankind is tottering on a precipice resulting from hunger, poverty, disease and the adverse consequences of climate change.
The adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015 is another milestone in the global effort to safeguard and promote humankind’s continuing progress and survival.
We welcome the pledges by developed countries to make resources available for the Green Climate Fund.
The threats posed by underdevelopment, climate change and HIV/AIDS have pricked the conscience of humankind for many years.


  
     89     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LTU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to focus on the particularly important Sustainable Development Goal 5 — on achieving gender equality and empowering all women and girls — because today’s greatest challenges, from climate change to fighting terrorism to ending the world’s deadliest conflicts, can be resolved only with the full participation of both genders, especially women.


  
     90     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LUX_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

He has rightly stated, as fact and as an imperative, that we are the first generation that can put an end to poverty, and we are the last generation that can act so as to avoid the repercussions of unbridled climate change.
The year 2015 was also marked by the adoption of the Paris Agreement, which Luxembourg strongly committed to during its presidency of the Council of the European Union.
Luxembourg is actively working to implement the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and will be among those States ratifying the Paris Agreement at the end of the year.
Armed conflict, the proliferation of weapons, the lack of development, violent extremism, radicalization and terrorism, threats posed by climate change, poor governance and violations of human rights continue to dominate the daily news.
The effects of climate change manifest themselves in increasingly extreme weather patterns that disproportionately affect the most vulnerable States and populations, creating tension and unrest and pushing people to migrate to places they hope will be more clement.


  
     91     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_LVA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The far-reaching agreements on sustainable development and climate change have restored trust in the multilateral system’s ability to deliver solutions on pressing global issues.
Conflicts, poverty, disasters and climate change have contributed to the rise of large movements of refugees and migrants.
All parties must fulfil their commitments under the Minsk agreements and make the Minsk process work.
We are determined to maintain the political momentum for climate action.
In April of this year, Latvia signed the historic Paris Agreement.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has been driving the push for worldwide action on climate change and gender equality.


  
     92     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MAR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Given the link between sustainable development and the environment, Morocco, which will host the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Marrakesh in November, aspires to make the session an opportunity for African voices and those of other parts of the world that are vulnerable to the negative impacts of climate change to be heard on an equal basis.
It emphasizes its intention to make the Marrakesh session a turning point in the implementation of the Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change by facilitating solutions for sustainable development, as well as practical measures and structural programmes to implement the global commitments to address climate change.
Morocco wishes to emphasize that the success of the implementation of the Paris Agreement is organically and strongly linked to the provision of the necessary financial resources.
In that connection, the Kingdom of Morocco hopes that the Conference participants in Marrakesh will give special attention to the interests of the countries of the South, including African countries and small island developing States, that are threatened by climate change.
At this time, Morocco, which has deposited its instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement, calls on all other States to expedite their ratification of the Agreement so that it can enter into force as a strong expression of the commitment of the international community.


  
     93     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MCO_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are also the representatives of a world threatened by global warming, made vulnerable by attacks on biodiversity, and concerned at new dangers such as ocean acidification and the melting of the permafrost.
Thanks to the Secretary- General, significant progress has been made on sustainable development with the adoption one year ago of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the adoption in December last year of a major agreement on climate change, the Paris Agreement.
According to the most recent projections of the United Nations, there may be as many as 250 million climate refugees by 2050.
In order to achieve that, we must first protect the climate.
The Paris Agreement, for which the Principality campaigned, represents a milestone.
I also recall that Monaco is committed to reducing its greenhouse-gas emissions by 50 per cent by 2030 as compared with emission levels in 1990.
Despite its small responsibility for global emissions, our country has the ambition to be a leader in using innovative means of transport and energy consumption.
That is why Monaco is committed to maintaining its support for the Green Climate Fund.
Global warming has several tragic consequences.
It did so in 2009, when it hosted 150 international scientists, who signed the Monaco Declaration, the first global warning about the acidification of the oceans.


  
     94     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MDA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In this context, I would also like to stress our interest in obtaining development financing and assistance for climate and disaster resilience, in the light of the climate-related vulnerabilities of our country.
We recognize climate-change risks and implications for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The Republic of Moldova supported the negotiation and adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Perhaps never before has there been such a clear correlation between migration, sustainable development and climate change, on the one hand, and peace and security, on the other.


  
     95     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MDG_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

By submitting, together with 21 other countries, a voluntary national review report in the framework of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Madagascar reaffirms and solidifies the political commitment it undertook when it signed on to the global mobilization last year which led to the adoption of the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.
By signing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on 22 April and then ratifying it, Madagascar has chosen to participate in the universal movement to transform the world, thereby ensuring the future of our planet — our sole and unique habitat.
Madagascar is one of the countries permanently suffering from the devastating effects of climate change.
In return, we expect an equal distribution of resources from the Green Climate Fund and the transfer of relevant technologies.


  
     96     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MDV_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also wish to congratulate Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for all of his hard work over the past 10 years, and especially for his efforts on climate-change advocacy and sustainable development and his partnership with small island developing States (SIDS).
The Maldives is one of the countries that is most vulnerable to environmental shocks and one of the most exposed to the impacts of climate change.
Climate change is an existential threat to our country.
For decades, we have been advocating urgent action on climate change and asking the world to take notice.
With 13 other SIDS, we, the Maldives, were among the first ratifiers of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We know that our emissions are almost negligible.
We want the international community to continue to invest in action to prevent climate change and in forging meaningful partnerships.
While we continue to be alarmed by the realities of climate change, another crisis looms.
The Maldives has been arguing for some time now that, unless small States are able to build strong institutions, they will not be able to build resilience in the spheres of economy and climate change.


  
     97     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MEX_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Additionally, driven by a sense of urgency, Mexico has adopted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Similarly, at the regional level, the three North American nations have committed to reducing our oil and gas sectors’ methane emissions by between 40 and 45 per cent by 2025.


  
     98     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MHL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

To us as a low-lying island nation, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change demonstrates that international spirit of cooperation and interdependency.
I used to be a teacher, so I implore those Member States that have not ratified the Paris Agreement to do their next homework from this week.
It is imperative that the Paris Agreement enter into force this year.
We need to do more to increase our commitments on mitigation, on adaptation and on finance.
We must take every opportunity to remain below the 1.5°C limit needed for our survival.
And, as if our local communities do not have enough challenges, our vulnerability to natural hazards and climate-driven events like droughts and coastal flooding will be far worse in the future, even with strong efforts to curb global emissions under the Paris Agreement.


  
     99     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MKD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have disturbed the fragile climate balance, the balance between humankind and nature, thus jeopardizing the future of our descendants.
As a signatory to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Republic of Macedonia has already established its national priorities and contributions with regard to climate change.


  
     100     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MLI_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

History will remember not only the Secretary-General’s efforts to resolve many conflicts throughout the world, but also his personal involvement in the success of the summits on climate change and humanitarian action, the former having led to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We in Mali are convinced of the need to adopt strategies that strengthen economic growth and respond to the vital needs of the population, including combating climate change, protecting the environment and providing education, health care, social protection and jobs for young people, while also empowering women and ensuring their involvement and that of young people in the management of critical issues relating to the socioeconomic development of the country.
Climate change is one of the major challenges affecting the survival and development of humankind.
As a prime example of a country of the Sahel, Mali is bearing the brunt of the effects of climate change.
That is why the delegation of Mali welcomes the strong commitment on the part of the international community in adopting and signing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which marks a decisive turning point in the preservation of the environment.
In that regard, I am particularly pleased to announce that this very morning Mali deposited its instruments of ratification for the Paris Agreement, the implementation of which I am convinced will contribute to saving our environment.


  
     101     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MNE_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, President of the Assembly at its seventieth session, for his leadership and his many efforts invested in creating prerequisites for the efficient implementation of crucial agreements on sustainable development and climate change.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 carry significant importance and are characterized by their interdependence.
Montenegro, despite its size and small share in global emissions, has been committed to implementing the agreements I mentioned through sustainable development initiatives, even though its contribution may be small.
Montenegro strongly believes that the Paris Agreement is a foundation on which further efforts to preserve climate systems can be based, thereby ensuring that all countries, regardless of their stage of development, progressively raise their ambitions in order to achieve their final goals.
In line with the provisions of the Paris Agreement, Montenegro reaffirms its ambitious contribution, which is to reduce its own greenhouse-gas emissions by 30 per cent compared with those of 1990.
Our commitment to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement will pose a challenge for our entire system and will need to include all the stakeholders at the national and local levels of management and in all segments of society.
Like many other countries, Montenegro will require additional support from the international community and the financial mechanisms of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I refer primarily to the Green Climate Fund.


  
     102     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MNG_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In December in Paris, the world turned a new page in its efforts to combat climate change.
The 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement provide clear guidelines for achieving what we have promised to do.
Tomorrow, we will mark that landmark achievement on our collective journey to counter climate change.
Let me take this opportunity to congratulate the States parties that have formally ratified the Paris Agreement.
The people of Mongolia have joined the world in its fight to mitigate climate change.
We have concluded our national legislative process and recently ratified the Paris Agreement.
The Paris Agreement represents our common success, the result of our hard work.
Mongolia is one of smallest carbon emitters in the world, yet it suffers disproportionately from climate change.
The benefits of the green funds and carbon credits are sorely missed in Mongolia and many developed countries alike.
In conclusion, allow me to express Mongolia’s full commitment to faithfully implementing both the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     103     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MOZ_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would first like to congratulate the President on his election to lead the Assembly at this session and to thank the outgoing President, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for the dedication with which he has fulfilled his mandate in the context of achieving fundamental commitments, namely, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing for development, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Sendai Framework for disaster risk reduction and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     104     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MRT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is also a major threat to sustainable development, particularly in the regions of the Sahel and the Sahara.
We look favourably on the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and it is our cherished hope that all parties will respect their commitments under it.


  
     105     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MUS_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

For a small island developing State like ours, Goal 13 on climate action and Goal 14 on the oceans are of paramount importance for our survival.
We are pleased that we have now crossed the first threshold for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The 60 countries that have ratified the Agreement are responsible for 47.76 per cent of global emissions.
For small island developing States (SIDS), the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement is of paramount importance.
The tourism industry in SIDS faces particular challenges owing to the negative effects of global warming.
In that context, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that on 1 and 2 September Mauritius, with the support of the World Bank, hosted the African Ministerial Conference on Ocean Economies and Climate Change.
The Mauritius Communiqué, which encapsulates the outcome of the Conference, will serve as an input for the Green Climate Fund Africa Dialogue to be held next month in Cape Town.
Mauritius will also contribute to the discussions at the African Union Extraordinary Summit on Maritime Security and Safety and Development in Africa, scheduled for 15 October in Togo, and at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, from 7 to 18 November, in Morocco.
Let me highlight the fact that during the Conference in Mauritius, African Ministers, along with our development partners — in particular the World Bank Group, the African Development Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations — agreed that a technical and financial assistance package is imperative in order to support ocean economies and ensure the resilience of oceans and coastal areas to climate change.
We look forward to the adoption of such a package at the Climate Change Conference in Morocco.
Addressing the causes and effects of climate change will require robust determination and strong political will, as well as extraordinary means, in terms of both financing and technology transfer.
We highly appreciate the pledges made by countries such as France and Canada to provide financing to fight climate change.
Two days ago, Mauritius and the Commonwealth Secretariat signed a host country agreement for the establishment in Mauritius of a Climate Finance Access Hub, as had been decided at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting held in Malta in November 2015.
The Hub will help small island developing States and least developed countries to unlock critical climate funds.


  
     106     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MWI_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Everywhere, global warming threatens our existence with hurricanes, cyclones, earthquakes, wildfires, extreme flooding and droughts, dangers that threaten the fragile economies of Africa and the Third World everywhere.
Our only major setback in the last two years was the effects of climate change.
When we consider climate change, let us remember that there are real souls out there suffering the effects.
This afternoon, I will sign the Paris Agreement on Climate Change here at Headquarters and commit my Government to the ratification and implementation of that crucial document.
Malawi has already adopted a climate change policy, which will guide our domestic implementation of the Paris Agreement.
We are taking action on climate change.


  
     107     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_MYS_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have heard testimonies from various small island developing States on the devastating impact of climate change on their countries and populations and the existential threat it presents to their subsistence.
We have seen an increase in the frequency and intensity of climate-related disasters, such as floods, coastal erosion and landslides, in many other countries across the globe.
If left unchecked, I am afraid climate change could, in fact, constitute the greatest threat multiplier for global security.
Realizing the increasingly urgent need to address the impact of climate change, we came together in Paris last December and took the historic step of adopting the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Malaysia is committed to reducing the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions of its gross domestic product by up to 45 percent by 2030.
Malaysia is currently working towards its ratification of the Paris Agreement.


  
     108     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NAM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Earlier this morning we attended the high-level event on the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Namibia welcomes this development, and we are happy to announce that we have ratified the Agreement, which represents a milestone in our endeavours to fight the devastating effects of climate change.
Climate change is a global problem and requires a global response from all of us, in both developed and developing countries.
In this regard, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Sendai Declaration on disaster risk reduction remain the central multilateral frameworks for cooperative action for addressing climate-change-induced disaster risks, such as drought.
Consequently, we have undertaken ambitious domestic action on climate change, including mitigation and adaptation, to surmount the losses and damages arising from climate-change-induced natural disasters.
Furthermore, the activation of the Green Climate Fund is a welcome and timely development.
In this context, I wish to announce Namibia’s offer to host the African regional hub of the Green Climate Fund at the appropriate time.
As members may recall, Namibia came in second to South Korea in the bid to host the world headquarters of the Green Climate Fund.
As a consolation prize, we would therefore be honoured to host the African regional hub of the Green Climate Fund.


  
     109     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NER_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I congratulate him on his work, particularly regarding the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, where his commitment proved instrumental, and also for his role in the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Two months later, the adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change came to complete that important campaign through a package of actions aiming, on the one hand, at limiting the rise in the average global temperature to less than 2°C, thanks to courageous measures to mitigate the causes of climate change, and on the other hand, at taking measures to strengthen resilience in the face of climate change.
Therefore, the theme of this session — “The Sustainable Development Goals: a universal push to transform our world” — is very much in line with the transformational vision and mission of the climate-change programme.
It will also depend on our ability to honour the commitments we undertook at the Paris Conference on Climate Change.


  
     110     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NGA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must work together to liberate humankind from poverty, save our planet from the devastation of climate change and rid the world of terrorism for a more peaceful and prosperous future.
The world took a giant step in Paris towards addressing the challenges of climate change.
Nigeria is proud to have been part of the process leading to the adoption of the Paris Agreement in December 2015 at the twenty-first meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
That meeting marked a watershed in the global community’s commitment to address climate change, and we will continue in our determined efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.
At the centre of Nigeria’s climate action is our determination to implement the strategies in our intended nationally determined contributions, which will foster a low- carbon economy and sustainable growth in building a climate-resilient society.
The negative consequences of climate change have manifested themselves in the drying up of our Lake Chad.


  
     111     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NIC_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Much has been said in recent days about climate change.
The World Meteorological Organization projects that 2016 is heading towards breaking all temperature records since records have been kept, which makes it clear that the agreements reached at the twenty-first session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) in Paris failed to establish a firm starting point to address the greatest challenge facing the planet.
The voluntary, non-binding formula will lead to an increase in global temperature of 3°C or more, which will have catastrophic effects on highly vulnerable countries.
Many of us feel that what was agreed in Paris is not sufficient ,and we urge more ambitious actions.
We note with great concern the worldwide record temperatures and little ambition to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, which corroborates Nicaragua position’s at COP21.


  
     112     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NLD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In a world of globalization, climate change and conflict, they are losing out.
As the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and, only this week, the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 71/1) have shown, the United Nations remains the one legitimate institution where international goals and ambitions are set and where we can agree on new global challenges.
The new Secretary-General can hit the ground running and boost further implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement, of peacekeeping and peacebuilding reform, including real zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as the very important issue of reform of the United Nations development system.
We will ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change shortly.
Other Security Council priorities for the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 2018 include the protection of civilians and addressing the peace and security implications of climate change.
Another major achievement and a victory for diplomacy in a time of so much strife is the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     113     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NOR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Yet at the same time, the world has moved forward, countries have come together, found compromises and taken joint action, as, for example, when we reached the Paris Agreement and adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development — the road map for our future coexistence and cooperation.
The Climate Conference in Paris late last year marked a turning point in the fight to save our planet.
We now need effective and concerted action in order to bring down emissions and meet the ambitious objectives that we have set ourselves.
The adoption of the SDGs and the Paris Agreement shows what can be achieved when countries come together to find compromises and take action.
In our globalized and interdependent world, effective international cooperation is essential if we are to address poverty, conflicts, climate change, migration and terrorism.


  
     114     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NPL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

As to climate change, Nepal, as a Himalayan country, faces challenges in the form of melting glaciers and flash floods from glacial-lake outbursts.
We believe that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, adopted last year, reflects a rare commitment by the international community to making a difference.
Nepal also believes that climate justice based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities should be at the centre of its implementation.
Special attention must be given to the climate-vulnerable countries, particularly mountainous countries, as regards providing resources and transferring technology for capacity-building and adaptation.


  
     115     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NRU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Fortunately, the 193 Members of the United Nations have given us some detailed road maps to guide our work: the Small Island Developing States Accelerated Modalities of Action Pathway, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing for development, and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.
The full implementation of our international commitments takes on much greater urgency in the face of climate change.
That is why Nauru was among the first countries in the world to ratify the Paris Agreement.
The Paris Agreement is not the end of our climate work.
Greenhouse gas emissions over the past 150 year have pushed the climate system beyond the boundaries of human experience.
Sea-level rise can occupy our territory just as surely as an invading army.
From the perspective of my small island nation in the Pacific, climate change is our greatest humanitarian crisis.
It is our war, and while Nauru will be among the first to experience the worst impacts, climate change will be the rest of the world’s humanitarian challenge as well.
The Paris Agreement notwithstanding, the dangerous climate impacts will continue to grow worse over the coming decades.
We have little understanding of how our human systems will hold up under climate stress.
Climate change raises some hard questions, and I am not sure we have the answers.
Will we learn to share declining freshwater resources as the glaciers disappear?
Will we be able to protect the millions who are rendered homeless when low-lying coastal areas are inundated?
For that reason, Nauru calls on Members to support the proposal by the Pacific SIDS to appoint a United Nations special representative on climate and security.
The security implications of climate change will define the twenty-first century, and we must prepare.
The people are promoting the Sustainable Development Goals domestically and internationally, and they are helping to lead the way towards a low-carbon economy.
His most enduring legacy may perhaps be to have raised climate change to the top of the international agenda, but his tireless efforts to ensure that no country, no matter how small, is left behind is just as important.


  
     116     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_NZL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

There have been significant steps forward on development, climate, financing, humanitarian issues and disaster risk reduction.


  
     117     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PAN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world witnessed significant progress made at the Paris summit.
This week, Panama will deposit the instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on climate change.
With the same resolve and commitment, I call on States Members of the Organization to join forces against climate change, pool their efforts and do everything in their power to find comprehensive solutions to the issue of irregular migration flows, and to continue taking solid steps that will allow us to defeat terrorism and organized crime, inequality and poverty.


  
     118     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PER_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement on Climate Change should serve as an inspiration for us to implement those policies.


  
     119     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PHL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is also vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate, change owing to many years of neglect and selfish practices by various countries.
We reiterate our call for climate justice and the principle of equity and common but differentiated responsibility in the implementation of the obligations under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     120     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PLW_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we meet today, the perils of climate change and global conflicts still exist.
The impact of climate change in terms of sea- level rise, ocean acidification and the frequency and intensity of storms continues to pose an existential threat to Palau and other small island developing States.
Palau participated actively in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change processes and was one of the countries that strongly advocated for making Goal 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) a stand-alone goal on climate change.
Palau is proud to have been the second, following Fiji, of the 60 nations to have ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, bringing the total number of ratifications to approximately 48 per cent of the membership, with 55 per cent of Member States required for the Agreement to enter into force.
In addition, we are hopeful that a Special Representative of the Secretary-General for climate change and security will be appointed.
Such an appointment will provide an effective working link between the Secretary-General, the General Assembly and the Security Council on matters dealing with peace and security arising from climate change.
It is imperative that no effort be spared to ensure that global temperature rise remains under 1.5°C.
There is an urgent need to transform our world in the face of severe climate change impacts, global conflicts resulting in the unprecedented migration of refugees and poverty exacerbated by huge gaps in resource use and ownership.
We are especially grateful for the assistance they have already given us for the Marine Sanctuary, on climate change and in other areas of development.
We urge the United Nations system to involve Taiwan in the processes for implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Under his stewardship, among other things, we achieved the Paris Agreement, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon often said,
“We are the first generation that can end poverty and the last that can end climate change.”
We agree and salute him for the 2030 Agenda and Paris Agreement, which, if implemented effectively, will help end poverty and climate change, respectively.
Addressing climate change and achieving the 2030 Agenda requires political will, resolve, commitment of resources and goodwill.


  
     121     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PNG_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Papua New Guinea is highly vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change.
Therefore, in order to demonstrate our commitment to combating climate change, we supported the adoption of the Paris Agreement in December 2015, signed it in April 2016, and ratified and deposited the instrument of ratification at the Secretariat yesterday.
We welcome and congratulate those countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement, and we urge those that have not yet done so to do so, particularly countries that emit high levels of carbon.
I am also pleased to inform the Assembly that we have signed a privileges and immunities agreement with the Green Climate Fund yesterday.
The health, productivity and resilience of the oceans and seas are increasingly under threat from uncontrolled and poorly regulated human activities, including illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, land-based pollution, plastic and marine debris, and ocean warming and acidification.


  
     122     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_POL_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We can already ask ourselves whether we are threatened by climate wars.
Last year in Paris we jointly demonstrated that we are capable of taking responsible decisions by adopting a new climate agreement.
I wish to inform the Assembly that Poland has initiated the process of ratifying the Paris Agreement and the Doha Amendment.
Responsibility for the natural environment, however, involves more than the mere prevention of climate change.


  
     123     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PRT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The historic agreements, on the Sustainable Development Goals and climate change, reached in 2015 and 2016, respectively, the World Humanitarian Summit and the General Assembly special session on the world drug problem were all major achievements that exemplified effective, United Nations-centred multilateralism.
Furthermore, with regard to the link to climate change, I reiterate Portugal’s commitment to small island developing States in supporting the efforts needed to overcome the challenges they face, which are the responsibility of the international community as a whole.


  
     124     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_PRY_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The effects of climate change and pollution continue to worsen, and pandemics threaten our planet.
Countries like ours, which greatly depend on natural resources, are more vulnerable to climate change.
Therefore, for Paraguay, the Paris Agreement is a priority.


  
     125     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ROU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need to integrate the various strategies relating to climate change, development, humanitarian aid, the eradication of hunger, economic growth and peacebuilding.
We are concentrating on taking on environmental and climate-change issues in sector-specific policies, while also developing a comprehensive approach.
We believe that a cross-cutting approach to energy, environmental and agricultural policies, as well as climate issues, is essential in order to achieve the SDGs.
We need to move beyond sectoral approaches in trade policy; address climate change, hunger and poverty; ensure food production and economic growth; and find a more inclusive institutional framework to put forward integrated solutions.


  
     126     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_RUS_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change has become an important event among United Nations activities.
The communication of nationally determined contributions on a voluntary basis moves us toward achieving the objectives of the Agreement, namely, to hold the increase in the average global temperature to below 2°C.
Clear rules and procedures to implement the provisions of the Paris Agreement, bearing in mind the interests of all countries participating in the process, should be developed in order to achieve success.
In that context, the launch of market and non-market mechanisms to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, as stipulated in article VI of the Agreement, is a priority matter.
Today, that covers all areas of international life, including communication, political and military aspects of security, climate protection, conflict settlement, peacekeeping, ensuring human rights and freedoms, sustainable development, regulating information technology, and efforts to combat terrorism, drug- trafficking and corruption.


  
     127     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_RWA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

During the past year, the international community concluded landmark agreements on sustainable development and climate change and renewed its commitment to work together to combat violent extremism.
Next month, more than a thousand delegates will gather in Kigali to consider a ground-breaking amendment to the Montreal Protocol on the Ozone Layer that would phase out hydrofluorocarbons, a major type of greenhouse gas.
The nearly 30-year-old Montreal Protocol is already one of the most successful international agreements in history, and it now affords us the opportunity to take a significant step forward in implementing the one-year-old Paris Agreement.


  
     128     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SAU_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We call for the adoption of policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In that regard, we note that the Kingdom has invested in developing new carbon capture technology in our effort to protect and preserve the environment.


  
     129     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SEN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Last year, we adopted the Agenda for Sustainable Development for the period up until 2030, and we adopted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Africa cannot remain the continent that is most affected by climate change, even though our contribution to carbon dioxide emissions related to electricity is at the lowest level, expected to reach only 3 per cent in 2040.
The Paris Agreement, which we signed in April, compels us to work together and calls for developing countries, especially in Africa, not to adopt the same polluting patterns as industrialized countries.
I invite all bilateral and multilateral partners to contribute to the financing of the fund for providing energy to Africa, in line with the commitments made under the Paris Agreement to finance mitigation and adaptation measures.


  
     130     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SGP_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Examples include global economic growth, climate change, epidemics and terrorism.
The recent successful conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change last November was a good example of how countries around the world could come together to solve a problem posed to the global commons.
That the Paris Agreement will likely enter into force less than seven months after it was opened for signature is a confidence-booster for the United Nations system.
Singapore is proud to have played its part by actively participating in negotiations and to have been part of the early wave of countries that deposited their instruments of ratification at the high-level event on the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on 21 September this year.
I am pleased to note that, under the chairmanships of Grenada, Nauru and now Maldives, the Alliance of Small Island States played a catalytic role during the climate-change negotiations.
In South-East Asia, transboundary haze from forest and peatland fires started by human beings have impaired the health of millions of people, compromised the safety of aircraft navigation, damaged our regional economies and accelerated climate change.
Singapore has also tailored training programmes for small island developing States in areas including sustainable development, climate change and public governance.
I think we should also recognize the important contributions he has made to sustainable development and climate change during his two terms as Secretary-General.
We have helped to build consensus and find solutions to key global issues, including climate change.


  
     131     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SLB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our appreciation goes to his predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, whose term in office coincided with the adoptions of three development frameworks — the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and their Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Over the years, he has worked for the benefit of all and has been a voice of reason, particularly on the issue of climate change.
The high-level meetings held this week to address the issue of large movements of refugees and migrants were also an opportunity to seriously examine the issue of climate-displaced populations and environmental migrants.
The international community must do more by establishing a global mechanism to help small island developing States (SIDS) manage populations displaced by climate change.
The treaties in effect are inadequate to addressing the issue of people forced out by climate change.
We call for a legal framework designed to address and protect the rights of forced climate migrants and to compensate populations affected by climate change for the loss of their livelihoods.
Solomon Islands welcomes the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and I would like to congratulate the French presidency of the 2015 Paris Climate Conference for its leadership in helping to restore trust and confidence in the multilateral system.
We now have the Paris Agreement, with legally binding obligations to implement the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
However, we remain concerned about the fact that ambitions under the Paris Agreement remain alarmingly low if we are to limit warming to well below 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
We appeal to developed countries to scale up the ambition of their intended nationally determined contributions so as to protect the integrity of the Paris Agreement.
We therefore urge countries that have not ratified the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to do so as soon as possible.
I also welcome the decision taken in December by the parties to the Montreal Protocol to phase down the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons under the treaty.
We hope that big emitters and industrial countries will see the urgency of preventing runaway climate change and will ratify the Paris Agreement to enable its entry into force as soon as possible.
This year, scientists reported that five of our islands had been claimed by the sea as a result of human-induced sea-level rise, while six others were severely eroded.
Accelerating sea-level rise and ocean acidification continue to be serious concerns for us.
Delaying action on tackling climate change comes at a cost, and we in the SIDS and least-developed countries are unnecessarily put in harm’s way by the lack of commitment on the part of some.
Solomon Islands welcomes and supports the initiative of the Moroccan presidency of the twenty- second session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC in convening a facilitative dialogue on unlocking the means of implementation to operationalize the Paris Agreement.
We also welcome the decision of the Green Climate Fund to disburse $2.5 billion by December 2016.


  
     132     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SLE_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I commend him for his vision and initiatives, including the major high-level panel reviews, the historic adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the signing of the Paris Agreement on climate change and convening the first World Humanitarian Summit.
Though we contribute almost nothing to global warming, Sierra Leone is the third most vulnerable country to the effects of climate change.
Dealing with climate change is therefore an urgent life-and- death matter for us.
That is why we welcome the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we will implement its provisions in Sierra Leone.
My Government, in collaboration with our development partners, is implementing projects on adaptation, including climate information and early-warning systems.


  
     133     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SMR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our country appreciates the commitment shown by Member States to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by 2020.


  
     134     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SOM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

No one nation, no matter how powerful or resourceful, can alone address the grave challenges posed by climate change, terrorism, poverty and the large movements of refugees and migrants, as well as conflict.


  
     135     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SSD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Therefore, it is imperative that we work together to resolve critical issues that affect our planet, such as, inter alia, terrorism, conflicts, migration, climate change, nuclear proliferation, racism and food insecurity.


  
     136     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_STP_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Nevertheless, we invite developed countries to ensure that their commitments to sustainable development funding are fulfilled through, inter alia, the diverse mechanisms announced following the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development and during the twenty- first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris.


  
     137     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SUR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global temperatures and sea levels are rising, ice caps are melting, and greenhouse-gas emissions are not yet diminishing.
With a forest cover of well over 90 per cent and a deforestation rate of merely 0.02 per cent, Suriname is one of the few carbon-negative countries in the world.
In addition, as a country with a low-lying coastal zone and with the majority of its population and fertile soils at risk from the dangers of rising sea levels, Suriname’s sustainable development efforts are under serious threat.
Nevertheless, we are still prepared to contribute to reducing greenhouse gases and to implementing even more ambitious policies.


  
     138     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SVK_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are also perfectly aware of the nature of the challenges awaiting us to decarbonize the economy, to promote inclusive and sustainable development.


  
     139     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SVN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Pooling our efforts in creating effective regulation on climate change proves that we can be successful in our endeavours.
It is quite possible that one of the elements of success was the fact that climate change is a major factor of global migration.
After the truly landmark previous session of the General Assembly, it is now time to start implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which, together with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, provides a signpost for and a vision of a more sustainable future for our planet and prosperity for its people.


  
     140     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SWE_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must and we can respond to that by empowering people, by strengthening democracy, good governance and the rule of law, by celebrating diversity, by keeping our economies open and pushing for trade, so that we can create decent jobs for all, by committing to arresting climate change in order to save our planet, by setting ambitious goals for sustainable development, by pursuing peace through diplomacy, and by seeking solutions through collaboration.
To succeed, we need a strong, visionary and courageous leadership, dedicated to change, to turning ambitions into concrete action and to delivering on the recent groundbreaking multilateral achievements on climate change, sustainable development and peace.


  
     141     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SWZ_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

To that end, the Government has prioritized road construction and the maintenance of roads and buildings, civil aviation, sustainable energy, research and technology development, safe water supply and sanitation, water-resource development, housing and human settlements, communications, the environment, climate change and disaster management.
We have also made significant improvements in a variety of sectors, but other challenges are reversing the gains we have made in past years, particularly with the issues of HIV/AIDS and climate change, which are among the plethora of challenges that we face as a developing nation.
The Kingdom is committed to addressing the scourge of climate change.
The country fully participated in all the negotiations that culminated in the adoption and subsequent signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The negative impact of climate change has become a thorn in the side of the eSwatini economy.
Therefore, the country has continued to feel the harsh effects of climate change at the levels of subsistence farming and commercial agriculture.


  
     142     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_SYC_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

One of the elements underpinning the Blue Economy approach is action to address climate change.
Because Seychelles is an island nation heavily dependent upon the environment for its survival, climate change and its adverse effects occupy a permanent place in the minds of our people.
Addressing the impacts of climate change is therefore an essential part of the discussion, as it involves the very future of our country.
With this in mind, Seychelles is compelled to put itself at the forefront of the fight against climate change, for it is a battle that we cannot afford to lose.
In this vein, the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which Seychelles was among the first 20 States to ratify, has been an encouraging sign of the international community’s renewed political will to push for positive change.
Such challenges also solicit deeper reflection on the plight of the more than 60 million people in the world who are displaced as a result of conflicts and natural disasters linked to climate change.


  
     143     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TCD_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Armed conflict, terrorism, climate change, mass migration, underdevelopment, poverty, and political, economic and financial crises have reached unprecedented proportions.
Citizens of the world from all walks of life in some cases live in a perpetual state of fear and in others in a state of despair because wars, indiscriminate violence, poverty and the adverse effects of climate change are on the rise and there is slim hope of solving those problems.
The implementation of the Agenda must be an absolute priority in order to eliminate extreme poverty, fight climate change, strengthen resilience and promote sustainable economic growth that will benefit all.
12/56 16-29296 One of the major challenges facing Africa is climate change and environmental issues.
The advance of the desert, the silting up of the Niger river, the El Niño phenomenon in southern Africa and deforestation are all the most striking signs of climate change in Africa.
Lake Chad has shrunk from 25,000 square kilometres in 1960 to less than 2,000 today; this is additional proof of the degradation of our planet’s climate.
In this respect, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, signed on 22 April by all States, creates new obligations and a structural framework for the long-term fight against climate change.


  
     144     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TGO_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am speaking of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Making development for the most vulnerable a priority is becoming increasingly crucial in the current context, which is marked by multiple and pressing challenges of persistent poverty and unemployment and threats to human security linked to climate change, disease, conflict and terrorism.
“On actions for the protection of the environment, Togo is facing major climate challenges, such as coastal erosion, flooding, desertification and unpredictable rainy seasons.
I take this opportunity at the Assembly to renew our firm commitment to the Paris Agreement.
“The noble objectives that our countries have set for themselves, in particular in the areas of sustainable development and the protection of the climate for future generations, cannot be achieved unless peace and security are guaranteed throughout the world.
The Summit’s aim is to agree on a joint declaration that can better prevent and address maritime insecurity and promote sustainable and inclusive development of the blue economy in line with the SDGs and the Paris Agreement.
In order to benefit from Africa’s potential, we must remove the obstacles that impede its social and economic development as soon as possible, in order to reap the positive benefits at a global level, including in the areas of climate, peace, security, health and the right to development.


  
     145     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_THA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is also the first year of the implementation of important agendas, such as the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, the Paris Agreement, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
On the issue of climate change and the environment, Thailand has ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     146     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TJK_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

His competent and effective leadership has been a positive force in reforming the Secretariat, easing crises and disputes, addressing current and emerging challenges and elaborating a new agenda on sustainable development and climate change.
In that regard, we should take into consideration the fact that climate change, as well as the processes of urbanization and population growth, will certainly exacerbate any challenges.
In addition, as a result of climate change, water shortages in many parts of the world will increase owing, first of all, to a reduction in the scale of glaciers and the snowpack.


  
     147     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TKM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

One of the main focuses of the General Assembly at its current session is the desire for Member States to continue the wide-ranging dialogue on climate change as the most important element of the United Nations comprehensive strategy for the achievement of the SDGs.
At the legislative level, we have adopted the national climate change strategy, which provides for a gradual transition to environmental safety standards in all major spheres of industrial activity.
Tomorrow, Turkmenistan will sign the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In that connection, we believe that it is high time to fulfil the core of the Paris Agreement by intensifying United Nations efforts aimed at developing new international rules linked to climate change and environmental protection.


  
     148     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TLS_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am certain that you, Sir, are well aware of the challenges that we face with regard to climate change and the management of our seas and marine resources.
His legacy has established the foundations for a reform of the bureaucracy and peacekeeping operations, and he has driven efforts to place human rights, climate change and refugees and migrants at the forefront of the Organization’s agenda.
All countries across the globe must take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
Island nations such as Timor-Leste are truly affected by the challenges brought about by climate change.
Given our commitment to combat global warming and not to compromise biodiversity and marine ecosystems, in April we signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which is currently in the process of being ratified in our National Parliament.


  
     149     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TON_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

By partnering with friends, such as the International Union for Conservation of Nature, Tonga is able to face the challenges of climate change, while remaining fully aware that as a Government it cannot face such challenges alone.
One of those challenges is the existential threat posed by climate change to international peace and security.
To ensure that the issue of negative impacts of climate change is high on the United Nations agenda, we reiterate our call for a Special Representative on climate and security and for the issue to be raised by our friends in the Security Council, due to its clear and unambiguous links to additional threats to international peace and security.
Be it in terms of sea-level rise, loss of territory, mass migration or as an instigator of violence and the suffering of peoples as a result of the scarcity of resources, the causal link is clear.
Tonga is the third-most-vulnerable country in the world to the adverse impacts of climate change.
As a signatory party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its subsequent Protocol, Tonga affirms its ongoing commitment to implementing the objectives of this core international framework on climate change.
The seriousness of the negative impacts of climate change cannot be underestimated.


  
     150     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TTO_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

From the existential hazard caused by unmitigated climate change to the insidious threats of violence, extremism and terrorism, to the crises of forced displacement and the spread of infectious diseases and illnesses, such as Ebola, chikungunya and zika, it is clear that the challenges of our time far exceed the limits of geography and demography and therefore diminish the efficacy of unilateral responses.
One of the defining challenges of our time is that of addressing the issue of climate change and global temperature increase.
Notwithstanding the minuscule contribution to absolute global carbon emissions of small island developing States such as Trinidad and Tobago, unmitigated climate change represents an existential threat for us.
The future viability and existence of our island State is dependent on the urgency and ambitiousness of the global response to reversing the already unsustainable trend of the global temperature increase.
Consequently, Trinidad and Tobago joins the international community in endorsing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change as a sign of hope for the future.
We especially wish to emphasize that the Agreement prioritizes the need for global action on the critical issue of climate change, an approach which, for us, is absolutely imperative if we are to have a chance of averting its most dangerous effects.
The adoption of the Paris Agreement signalled to the world that, in the words of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, “the spirit of multilateralism is strong”.
In keeping with that sentiment, Trinidad and Tobago joined 174 other Member States in becoming a signatory of the Paris Agreement in April.
Trinidad and Tobago recognizes that the conversation surrounding the Paris Agreement is now focused on building momentum towards its early entry into force.
Trinidad and Tobago also looks forward to deliberations at the upcoming twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Marrakech, Morocco, and to working towards the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and supporting international cooperation on the mitigation, adaptation and compliance on a scale that will ensure that the increase in the average global temperature is limited to 1.5°C.
Although the economy of Trinidad and Tobago is largely dependent on the hydrocarbon and petrochemical industries, we are committed to the processes under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
At a time of escalating international terrorism and the increasingly urgent need for decisive action on climate change, as well as of criticisms of the efficacy of the United Nations and its peacekeeping operations, his outstanding efforts and leadership have been instrumental in shaping the future of multilateralism.
The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement are just two examples of an exceptional record of achievements, not to mention his groundbreaking initiative earlier this year to convene the first ever World Humanitarian Summit, in collaboration with the Government of Turkey, in the beautiful city of Istanbul.


  
     151     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TUV_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We very much hope that, as a result of the action of the United Nations, peoples of all races and creeds, of all countries big and small, particularly those whose very existence is threatened by human-induced strife, conflicts and especially by the impacts of climate change, will be saved.
Will the canoe of the United Nations enable us to rise with the tide of progress and to sail through the surges of environmental insecurity and climate change, or will it sink us?
The adoption of the New York Declaration on the Movement of Migrants and Refugees (71/1), the compounding commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the many countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change have given us hope and renewed trust and confidence in the work of the United Nations and its ability to fulfil our hopes for the security, progress, and protection of our human rights.
Tuvalu applauds the strong leadership of the United States of America, other major greenhouse-gas emitters and the small island developing States (SIDS) — all of them, from the Pacific islands to other regions like the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean — to ratify the Paris Agreement on climate change.
We must ensure that the Paris Agreement enters into force.
Atoll nations such as Tuvalu, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, the Maldives, Tokelau and all other SIDS — Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu and Samoa — are already suffering the impacts of climate change and sea-level rise.
Tuvalu therefore appeals to all States to ensure that our collective efforts under the Paris Agreement keep the global temperature increase to below 1.5°C relative to pre-industrial levels, not only to fulfil the objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, but to save us all and ensure our future survival.
We must also ensure that we take account of the protection of the human rights of those people displaced by the impacts of climate change.
Irrespective of how well-intentioned or how well written our national strategies for sustainable development may be, our efforts and long-term survival and security will be seriously compromised unless urgent actions on climate change are taken at all levels.
In our view, the cause and effects of climate change, including the threats to the survival of people worldwide, especially in SIDS, have been thoroughly explained, first in the plethora of United Nations documentation, and now in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We must ensure that our commitments under the Paris Agreement are all met.
Tuvalu has exerted every effort to contribute its voice — however small, however low — at the global level, and we are proud to have been part of the negotiations on climate change since the Rio Summit, and through thick and thin, and heat and cold, until the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, with its successful outcome: the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Tuvalu was among the first countries to sign and ratify the Paris Agreement here in April.
We are committed to reducing our greenhouse-gas emissions, as we stated in our Intended Nationally Determined Contributions, and by 2020 we shall have reached our target of 100 per cent electricity generation from renewable sources.
Tuvalu has also established a Tuvalu Climate Change Survival Fund, using its own meagre financial resources, as a mechanism to show that we are serious in saving our people and enabling them to forever remain on the islands.
However, on our own, we are quite unable to afford the immense cost of adapting to the impacts of climate change.
In that respect, we are deeply grateful for the support that has come bilaterally and from the agencies of the Council of Regional Organizations in the Pacific, from various United Nations bodies in the Asia and Pacific region, as well as to the work of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and its Board.
We have proposed the establishment of a Pacific climate change insurance facility to help us receive assistance in a timely manner during disasters, without having to wait for partnerships and responses from partners.
We therefore stress the need for collective action to properly address illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, ocean acidification, the protection of biodiversity beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, and reforms to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, so as to protect the natural resources of our islands.
If we save Tuvalu, and SIDS, through the SDGs, particularly through Goal 13, on climate change, and Goal 14, on oceans, we will save the world.


  
     152     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_TZA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to assure the Assembly of Tanzania’s continued support to our shared commitment to addressing the myriad challenges facing the world, including, but not limited to, poverty, injustice, climate change and violent extremism.
We have an international and regional obligation to discharge our commitments in keeping with Goal 17 of the SDGs, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing for development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Climate change is poised to undermine national efforts to reduce poverty.
The losses of human, natural, financial, social and physical capital caused by the adverse effects of climate change are of great concern to Tanzania as it strives to attain sustainable development.
That is why we have made climate-change adaptation a national priority.
Based on the effects of climate change, we have prepared a national adaptation programme of action and subsequent national adaptation plans for Tanzania, aimed at identifying immediate and long- term actions for addressing climate change through our national climate-change strategy.
It is our hope that the Green Climate Fund and other funds will provide the financial resources needed to address adaptation requirements, as their unavailability limits the delivery of national obligations.
Our modest estimates show that we need approximately $500 million annually to address the already vivid impacts of climate change.
It is therefore important for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to enhance efforts to address barriers to financial resources from such funds.
The adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was truly historic.
At the time of ratifying the Agreement, Tanzania submitted its intended nationally determined contributions (INDCs) on both adaptation and mitigation under the Paris Agreement, and was among the first countries to do so.
With over 48 million hectares of forested land, which is more than 54 per cent of our land mass, Tanzania is already making a great contribution to the global community in terms of carbon sink.
Those countries with more responsibility and capacity must take the lead by reducing their emissions, since otherwise the Paris Agreement on Climate Change will have very limited effect, if any at all.
Under the stewardship of Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who led the Organization by example, we have been able to address in all honesty global issues ranging from climate change to development and peace and security.
We look forward to the new Secretary-General picking up where Ban Ki-moon leaves off.


  
     153     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_UKR_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a member of the Friends on Climate Change group, Ukraine contributed to reaching consensus on the universal agreement on climate change.
We completed the ratification procedures for the Paris Agreement in a very short time and deposited our ratification instrument during today’s high-level event.


  
     154     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_URY_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Health systems are also affected by the impact of the high costs of the treatments that are needed to treat chronic non-communicable diseases.


  
     155     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_USA_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have made international institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund more representative, while establishing a framework to protect our planet from the ravages of climate change.
That is why we need to follow through on our efforts to combat climate change.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change gives us a framework to act, but only if we scale up our ambitions.
For the wealthiest countries, therefore, a green climate fund should be just the beginning.


  
     156     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_VAT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Along these lines, I am gratified that, in September 2015, the nations of the world adopted the Sustainable Development Goals and that, in December 2015, they approved the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which sets the demanding yet fundamental goal of halting the rising of the global temperature.
Repaying it would require treating the environments of poorer nations with care and providing the financial resources and technical assistance needed to help them deal with climate change and promote sustainable development.”


  
     157     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_VCT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

It has focused on economic development and job creation, quality education, poverty eradication, the strengthening of institutions and infrastructure, renewable energy, climate resilience and the health, well-being and security of citizens.
As major greenhouse-gas emitters continue to dither, more frequent and more intense hurricanes continue to sweep our lands and to wash away large portions of our gross domestic product.
We are already experiencing the terrible effects of climate change.
The trajectory we face is one of rising temperatures and the mitigation pledges made by countries ahead of the Paris Agreement in December 2015 put us on track for a 3-3.5°C increase in global temperatures by the end of the century.
I applaud the international community for reaching the much-anticipated Paris Agreement on Climate Change in December last year, as well as the Secretary-General for convening the high-level event on entry into force of Paris Agreement during the current seventy-first session.
However, the promises made in the Paris Agreement to mitigate climate change and to provide climate financial aid are inadequate and unenforceable.
Indeed, as President Obama of the United States noted in his final address to this Organization, the Paris Agreement is just a framework; therefore, we need to be more ambitious.
The failure to mobilize sufficiently and facilitate access to promised climate financial aid mirrors official development aid scenarios, where the majority of developed countries have failed to meet the 0.7 per cent target of gross national income that was agreed to in the Monterrey Consensus in 2002.


  
     158     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_VEN_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the past 50 years, the consumption generated by capitalism has succeeded in melting the polar ice caps and creating unsustainable climate conditions on our planet.


  
     159     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_VNM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction not only seek to address short-term challenges, but also to present a vision for greater partnership for people, the planet, peace and prosperity.
Developing countries in particular continue to suffer from the weak global economic recovery, rising protectionism in major economies, climate change, natural disasters and epidemics.
As one of the countries predicted to be hardest hit by climate change and sea-level rise, Viet Nam is expediting procedures for the early ratification of the Paris Agreement and is planning its implementation.


  
     160     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_VUT_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

His accomplishments are many and are reflected in the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Climate change is real.
I congratulate the United States, China and the many other countries that have shown the world the path to take in ratifying the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I have submitted our ratification of the Paris Agreement to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and I am proud that small island developing States like Vanuatu are in the vanguard of the efforts to combat climate change.
I would encourage the States that have not yet ratified the Paris Agreement to do so as soon as possible.
The ratification of the Paris Agreement will come to naught unless we take bold action to limit the long- term rise in average global temperature to 1.5°C.
That is a crucial test for our leaders in the near future, and we will fight for the true implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We urge all leaders of the world to join the small island developing States in increasing our mitigation efforts.
We call for the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
At the recent meeting of the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat in the Federated States of Micronesia in September, it was agreed that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and efforts to make the Pacific more resilient to climate change and natural disasters remain essential components of our journey towards a sustainable future for our region.
In the Global Climate Risk Index 2014, four of the Pacific island States are among the top 10 countries exposed to natural disasters in the world.
Vanuatu faces one of the highest rates of sea- level rise that we have seen in the Pacific.
The presence of such extreme climate events has caused major harm to our infrastructure and economy.
Climate change in Vanuatu is responsible for the loss of land to the sea and has also had a devastating effect on the food we eat, on our subsistence economy and, above all else, on the health of our people.
Despite the fact that the Pacific is known for floods owing to the rise in sea levels, the disappearance of entire islands means that the people of Vanuatu will be forced to move inland.
However, we will be transforming our ways of life to adapt to the climate change that is already affecting the population.
This constitutes a major step on the path to regional integration and the unification of the Pacific island countries, leaving no one behind in the fight against the impact of climate change and illegal fishing or in the creation of economic opportunities through trade and more open economic relationships.


  
     161     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_WSM_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

His passionate leadership on climate change — the undisputed priority concern of every Pacific island country and territory — has endeared him to the Pacific region.
There he witnessed at first hand both the scars and excessive damage to the physical landscape and coastlines caused by climate change, on the one hand, and, on the other, the resilience and sheer determination of Pacific peoples on the front lines of climate change to ensure the survival of some of the islands and their continued existence as sovereign nations.
We wish him well in his future calling and trust that his successor will embrace and continue his legacy, especially in the context of climate change and the much anticipated Paris Agreement, which is about to enter into force.
They represent our hopes for solutions to address the issues before our Assembly, ranging from sustainable development to climate change, from disaster-risk resilience to development financing and from humanitarian challenges to peace and security.
We are greatly encouraged by the demonstrable commitment and political will to transform the Paris Agreement on Climate Change into reality and that it is poised to enter into force sometime soon.
That is a welcome and positive development, especially from the perspective of all island nations, given the extent to which impacts of climate change are already being felt.
When cyclones and natural disasters are happening more frequently and with greater intensity in our part of the world, as witnessed recently in Vanuatu and Fiji, the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement is everyone’s top priority.
We applaud the leadership shown by Member States that have ratified the Paris Agreement or pledged to do so soon so that it can enter into force in record time.
The science of climate change is quite clear and unequivocal.
The political will to accelerate the early operationalization of the Paris Agreement is now evident.
But signing and ratifying the climate agreement are the easy and early achievables.
We need to match the political will with the provision of adequate resources that are easily accessible so that the climate pledges already submitted to the United Nations can be used to facilitate early implementation of all efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions without delay.
The coordinated management and utilization of the Global Environment Facility, the Adaptation Fund and the newly established Green Climate Fund, as well as the complementarity offered by other funding sources, both private and public, will become all the more critical in the implementation phase.
The challenge has been raised for the Green Climate Fund and other funding institutions to assist small island developing States in accessing resources through a streamlined and simplified project cycle and approval process.
Addressing climate change is everyone’s responsibility, not a monopoly reserved solely for Governments.
Oceans and seas have a fundamental role to play in contributing to global prosperity, from regulating climate to providing food security for billions of people.
Yet the health of the oceans is increasingly compromised by the pressures of overfishing, climate change, ocean acidification, habitat loss and pollution.


  
     162     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ZAF_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

The signing of the Paris Agreement last year marked a historic moment in humankind’s resolve to minimize the impact of climate change and address the human contribution to it.
I would like to take this opportunity to commend Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the extraordinary leadership that he provided since the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Copenhagen.


  
     163     
   
FILE: UNGA71_2016_ZMB_71_2016_CLIMATE.txt
  

Through his leadership, Mr. Ban Ki-moon has distinguished himself as a world leader committed to tackling key global challenges, such as reducing poverty and addressing climate change.
It is evident that climate change has had an adverse impact on the growth of our economies.
Zambia has been negatively affected by climate change, which has led to poor crop yields as a result of adverse weather patterns.
I also wish to join other countries that are calling for the provision of adequate resources to make fully operational the Green Climate Fund, as that would greatly contribute to climate-change mitigation and adaptation.
Zambia applauds the landmark Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
It calls for fulfilment of the pledges made by parties at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change .
Zambia also recognizes the importance of food security, and it therefore reaffirms its commitment to prioritizing a range of agricultural practices, including appropriate technologies that respond to climate change, such as conservation agriculture for sustainable and increased food production.


  
     164     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_AGO_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In this context, we appreciate the relevance of the four axes defined in the agenda of this session, namely, the prevention and mediation of conflicts to achieve sustainable peace, the promotion of human rights, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The world is moving towards consensus in recognizing the urgency of combating climate change.
To this end, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is extremely important in the development of enabling tools for protecting the right to development and strengthening resilience in developing countries.
Angola views the Agreement as a historic commitmentand an encouragement to contain global warming and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The urgent need for the world to advance the implementation of the Paris Agreement has been dramatically highlighted by the recent climate-related disasters in various parts of the world.


  
     165     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ALB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, a defiant truth that some still dare to question, is putting our very survival at risk.


  
     166     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_AND_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

It was several decades ago that the United Nations turned its focus towards another major objective, namely, sustainability, caring for the environment and, more specifically, the fight against climate change.
In June we marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
No country or group of countries can implement development policies alone, and no country can fight climate change alone.
While the relationship between peace, human rights, security and inclusive development is clear and undeniable, it is also increasingly obvious that combating climate change is a crucial pillar of that edifice.
That is because the destruction of ecosystems and the natural disasters linked to climate change directly and cruelly affect the most vulnerable people; because a scarcity of natural resources is at the heart of many current conflicts; because the new paradigm of sustainability drastically changes our previous notion of economic and social development; and because — and pardon me for mentioning the obvious — if we destroy the planet, there will be no sense in talking about peace, security or development.
Fighting climate change will therefore continue to take up much of the debate now and in the future on international actions and initiatives.
In recent times, Andorra has become very aware of the relevance of fighting climate change, and we have demonstrated that through actions.
Given that heating buildings is one of our biggest sources of greenhouse-gas emissions, we are investing substantially in network projects that centralize heat generation, making it more efficient and less polluting.
We therefore welcome the initiative of Mr. Emmanuel Macron, the President of our partner country, France, to promote a global compact for the environment, which will collect and harmonize all of the agreements signed and implemented since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 through to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change — because it is important that all global action to protect the environment and fight climate change be reflected in specific rights and obligations for States and individuals.
The various international conventions aimed at protecting the environment must be reflected in specific actions that will have tangible effects for people, because the negative effects of climate change and global warming have been apparent for some time and are having a very negative effect on the planet and its inhabitants.
I have in mind especially the concerns we have about the Pacific islands, which are threatened by a rise in sea levels, the fragile ecosystems of mountainous countries such as Andorra, and the extraordinary, devastating force of the hurricanes that have been hitting the Caribbean region recently.
It is all of us who must work to ensure that global agreements, starting with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, are truly binding, to assess with transparency various countries’ compliance with those agreements and to avoid the possibility that the United Nations and the international community could become paralysed or inactive in the face of the great challenges and major crises of our times.


  
     167     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ARG_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Argentina is committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
It upholds that commitment and will continue upholding it with other States parties in the preparatory process for the twenty- third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in order to achieve concrete progress in the implementation of the Convention.


  
     168     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ATG_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Whatever position on climate change a nation may take, the evidence of global warming is now irrefutably stronger.
Hurricanes are stronger and bigger because they are absorbing moisture from seas that are increasingly warmer as a result of global warming.
All 14 Caribbean Community countries together produce less than 0.1 per cent of global emissions.


  
     169     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_AUS_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Recent successes prove that to be true, such as the global Arms Trade Treaty, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Sustainable Development Goals.
With the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement, the Sendai Declaration and the World Humanitarian Summit’s grand bargain, there is a blueprint for global action that addresses the problems that can be addressed only by working together on the challenges we face, which do not respect national borders.
That includes climate change, diseases, including malaria, the management of our precious water resources, and modern slavery.
Australia is a strong supporter of the Paris Agreement, and here at the United Nations we have voiced our support, specifically on risk mitigation for coral reefs, which are among the most valuable environments on our planet.
Coral reefs sequester four times more carbon than forests and are a vital element in our global efforts to reduce emissions.


  
     170     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_AUT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

On a global level, poverty, hunger and climate change, as well as organized crime and the proliferation of weapons remain key concerns.


  
     171     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BDI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Patience is a virtue that climate change does not recognize.
The climatic disturbances of recent times are again sounding the alarm, urging all States to assume their collective duty to combat global warming and to implement without delay the commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
If we wish to attain the objective of containing the average temperature rise on the planet below 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels and pursue measures to limit temperature increases to 1.5°C vis-à-vis pre-industrial levels, we need to act today because tomorrow will be too late.


  
     172     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BEL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

They remind us of the utter urgency of the need to work together against global warming.
In that regard, I would like to welcome and support the initiative undertaken by French President Emmanuel Macron in the wake of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change aimed at establishing a genuine and far-reaching compact for the environment.


  
     173     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BEN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

“On 22 September 2016, from this rostrum, I affirmed that mass poverty is a major threat to humankind, and on that occasion I expressed the hope that the determination that led the world to adopt the Paris Agreement on Climate Change could lead us to set up a comprehensive programme for the eradication of mass poverty.
“I believe it is important to take this opportunity to recall Benin’s proposal on 15 November 2016 — during the solemn high-level session of the twenty-second meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Marrakech, Morocco — to establish an international research centre to respond effectively to the effects of climate change on agriculture in Africa, in conjunction with the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, based in Nigeria.
“We are deeply committed to efforts to combat climate change, and we believe that the Paris Agreement is an indispensable tool for achieving that.


  
     174     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BFA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was welcome in that regard.


  
     175     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BGD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement on Climate Change remains our bastion of hope for climate justice.
By recognizing climate vulnerability, we are building resilience against the grave impacts of climate change.


  
     176     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BGR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change continues to represent one of the biggest challenges of our time.
Bulgaria stands by its obligations under the Paris Climate Change Agreement, and believes that only a universal approach to its implementation can achieve the goals of the United Nations climate-change agenda.


  
     177     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BHR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In support of the United Nations endeavours to address global warming and its implications in the area of climate change, the Kingdom of Bahrain deposited its instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in December 2016, thereby renewing its commitment to that historic agreement, which we hope will consolidate international efforts to address that perilous phenomenon.


  
     178     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BHS_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Of special concern to small island developing States (SIDS) are the dangers of environmental degradation and climate change, which threaten our very survivability.
With what we have witnessed just recently with the passage of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and now Maria, I cannot underscore sufficiently the importance the Bahamas attaches to combating climate change and the preservation and protection of the environment.
Climate change is global.
The implications for the existence of SIDS such as the Bahamas, as we are confronted with global warming, rising sea-levels, more severe and frequent hurricanes and other extreme weather events, are all too clear.
I call on the international community to recognize the imperative of accelerating efforts to deal urgently with the adverse impact of climate change, and to do so in a coordinated way.
Well over two decades ago, my Government, recognizing the very real threat posed to our very existence, upgraded its human capital capacity to address the unintended consequences of climate change and its commitment to environmental conservation.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development recognizes the targets to be achieved with respect to non-communicable diseases and the need to mobilize the necessary financing.


  
     179     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BIH_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and have chosen to follow its guidelines.


  
     180     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BLZ_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement further complement the SDGs.
Among our ambitious climate-action contributions, Belize is committed to zero-emissions growth in its forestry sector and aims to achieve 85 per cent renewables in electricity production by 2027.
For our region, security and climate change are equally fundamental threats to our survival.
The region has risen to meet these challenges by adopting its own counter-terrorism strategy and pioneering innovative approaches to building resilience and facilitating its transition to low- and no-carbon economies across the region.
We look forward to engaging in action-oriented discussions in order to facilitate piloting such financing-for-sustainable-development initiatives across SIDS as debt swaps for climate action and the expansion of climate risk insurance, and to support adaptation measures at individual to national levels.
We have been at the forefront of the global fight to protect and preserve our shared natural environment against environmental degradation and climate change and to ensure the sustainable use of the planet, especially of our oceans, which sustain life on earth.


  
     181     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BOL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

To this terrible situation is added the climatic crisis.
We note that this year has again been the hottest in the history of the planet.
It is imperative that all our countries join the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to work together to address the enormous challenges involved in saving the planet.
It is unjustifiable and inadmissible that the United States has decided to turn its back on the Paris Agreement.
As one of the world’s main polluters, its Government, by refusing to do its part in the global effort, has become a threat to Mother Earth.
Not only is the world growing warmer every year, but each succeeding year is growing more unfair and more unequal.
Some Governments, far from helping to resolve the structural causes of this phenomenon, such as war, the consequences of climate change or the economic asymmetries among the States, proclaim greater restrictions in their migration policies, massive expulsions and the building of walls.
War continues to destroy cities and global warming is a growing threat.


  
     182     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BRA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Combating climate change is a necessary part of that contribution.
We stand committed to supporting the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
There is no possibility of postponing action in the sphere of tackling climate change.
I am proud to say that my country is leading the way towards a low-carbon economy.


  
     183     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BRB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

On each occasion that I have addressed the nations gathered here, I have issued a caution about the ramifications of unchecked climate change and highlighted the existential threat facing vulnerable small island developing States such as Barbados.
In his first address to the General Assembly, in 2008 (see A/63/PV.12), the then Prime Minister of Barbados, the late David Thompson, described the Caribbean as a region at the epicentre of the global climate crisis.
Citing scientific evidence and the devastating effects of climate change that were already evident in the region, he told the Assembly that failure to take urgent, ambitious and decisive action would be nothing short of reckless indifference.
Many leaders from small island developing States have also consistently warned of the inherent danger of inaction, or insufficient action, to reduce global emissions.
Year after year, our leaders have warned of the escalating costs of responding to the effects of climate change and of the fact that decades of development gains could easily be washed away in a few hours by an extreme weather event.
We have also endured the persistent and frustrating challenge of gaining access to the resources we need to strengthen our resilience and protect our peoples from the ravages of climate change.
I regret the fact that I must today report not merely the potential threat that climate change poses to the globe, but rather its destructive impact.
For Barbados and other SIDS, whether in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Asia or Africa, climate change is a matter of life and death.
Barbados remains committed to ambitious action on climate change.
We continue to support the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we view the Secretary-General’s proposal for a climate summit in 2019 as an important opportunity to take stock and give additional impetus where necessary.
Barbados’s support for global action on climate change is one part of its overall policy of promoting and protecting the environment.
Pathway, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Climate Change Agreement.


  
     184     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BRN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

While pursuing economic progress, we should be mindful of the correlation between human activities and climate change.
That is where the Paris Agreement on Climate Change can galvanize our collective actions to bequeath a cleaner, healthier, safer and more sustainable planet to our future generations.
To reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we are promoting efficiency in energy consumption and gradually deploying renewable energies.


  
     185     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BTN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Experts are increasingly convinced that natural disasters like hurricanes and floods are made worse by climate change.
Climate change is a reality.
Each of the past three years has been the hottest in recorded history, and 16 of the 17 hottest years on record have all occurred in this new century.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is proof that we have accepted that climate change is a reality, and that we are willing to come together, to work together and to fight climate change together.
As a landlocked, mountainous country, we are especially vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
That is why we are particularly alarmed about unchecked environmental degradation, which is the root cause of climate change.
We have ratified the Paris Agreement and are well on our way to fulfilling our pledges.
That means that we are the world’s only carbon-neutral country.
In fact, we are a carbon-negative country.
After centuries of neglect, fighting climate change is complex and expensive.
But that takes money; hence the importance of climate financing mechanisms.
However, securing financing is one of the biggest challenges that smaller nations have, and the role of climate-financing institutions is therefore essential.
The Green Climate Fund (GCF) has also begun to help developing countries around the world respond to climate change through innovative and transformative interventions.
That will enable all countries to fight climate change on a war footing and help developing countries respond to its effects.
I am optimistic that we will be able to prevent the worst effects of climate change.
Eradicating poverty, like dealing with climate change, is complex and expensive.
As we look to the future, Bhutan will continue working with all Member States to ensure that the United Nations continues to play an instrumental role in fighting climate change, eradicating poverty and maintaining global peace and security.


  
     186     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_BWA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme thus recognizes the nexus between peace and security, sustainable development and climate change.
It is therefore imperative that we give priority to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in order to achieve sustainable development and address climate change.
On climate change, Botswana fully supports the observation made in the 2030 Agenda that
“[c]limate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time and its adverse impacts undermine the ability of all countries to achieve sustainable development” (resolution 70/1, para.
In that regard, we welcome the entry into force of the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change and reaffirm our commitment to that agreement.
We appeal to all countries to remain steadfast in their defence and protection of the integrity of the Paris Agreement.
We reiterate our appeal to the Government of the United States of America to reconsider its decision to withdraw from that landmark agreement, which marks a universal effort by the international community to tackle the challenges of climate change.
As those present are aware, the challenge of climate change requires collective action, as no single country can successfully address the challenge on its own.
It is as if the recent hurricanes and their disastrous effects were meant to underscore to the American Administration that climate change is real.


  
     187     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CAF_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Concerning climate change and sustainable development, our planet continues to suffer the effects of natural phenomena such as earthquakes, floods, drought, rapid desertification and global warming, which are real worries.
To that end, I would remind us all, as signatories to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, that we should honour the commitments made at the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change regarding the importance of pooling our efforts in order to preserve our shared environment.


  
     188     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CAN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As I said here at the signing ceremony of the Paris Agreement, we are all implicated, in all senses of the word.
Part of that new partnership will involve addressing the shared challenge of climate change.
There is no country on the planet that can walk away from the challenge and reality of climate change.
In Canada that means imposing a tariff on carbon-related pollution.
When that is done properly, it is the most effective way of reducing emissions while continuing to grow the economy.
It was an opportunity for us to discuss the various ways of implementing the Paris Agreement and to maintain the international momentum towards a more sustainable future for all.
We are also working hard to deliver progressive trade agreements such as the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) with the European Union, which comes into effect today.


  
     189     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CHE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Other challenges include climate change, global inequality, conflict and humanitarian disasters, as well as forced displacement and migration.
I am thinking, of course, of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and of the desire to transfer resources from post-conflict management to prevention, in order to intensify peacebuilding activities.
For example, it appears that political dialogue among States is insufficient with regard to combating climate change.
Extreme weather events, such as hurricanes, clearly show that the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change must be implemented quickly.


  
     190     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CHL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those most recent catastrophes, caused by hurricanes more frequent and violent than usual — largely due to the warming of the oceans — remind us that we are at a key moment in the history of humankind, a defining moment that will have repercussions on our lives and on the lives of our grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
On the one hand, the notion of development that has prevailed until now has been shaken by the relentless reality of climate change.
Beyond reducing carbon dioxide emissions, that implies daring to transform our production models and rethinking the type of growth we wish to promote.
Faced with the choice of whether or not to join the fight against climate change, we have not doubted — simply because there is no room for denialism or selfish postures.
In line with SDG 14, on the oceans, and the Paris Agreement, my country has launched a national action plan for climate change.
Among the measures already under way are the green tax on carbon dioxide emissions from fixed sources and the transformation we have made in the energy sector.
Additionally, it is now 30 years since the adoption of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, which enabled the ozone layer to recover.
On this thirtieth anniversary, I would like to announce that my country has just deposited its ratification of the 2016 Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, which aims to prevent 0.5°C of global warming.


  
     191     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CHN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is a major factor to consider where the sustainable development of humankind is concerned.
It will be crucial to ensure that the United Nations continues to work on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and to urge all parties to uphold the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities, equitability, and respective capabilities, and to reinforce international cooperation on climate issues.


  
     192     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CIV_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In a world experiencing severe geopolitical turbulence and climate change, the theme of our session, “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”, is a call to action to strengthen peace in the world.
Global warming is a real concern.
No country is immune to the devastating effects of climate phenomena, which are jeopardizing our countries’ peoples and economies.
With regard to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, my Government will live up to its signing of it and will seek, inter alia, energy transitions, the development of smart agriculture and the preservation and protection of the environment.
It is urgent that every country, like Côte d’Ivoire, uphold its commitments voluntarily agreed to under the Paris Climate Agreement.
In the same vein, developed countries must honour their commitments to finance the adaptation of the economies of the countries in the South to the impact of global warming.
We must consider climate change a real threat to international peace and security.
The rise of terrorism, the devastating effects of global warming and the persistence of nuclear tension, particularly in the Korean peninsula, have sorely tested our collective security architecture.


  
     193     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CMR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

This session is being held in a global context of multiple hotbeds of tension all over the world, in which terrorism continues to claim thousands of victims, human activity is causing climate disruptions and poverty is far from declining.
The peace we have continues to be dangerously threatened, notably by terrorism, conflicts, poverty and climate disruptions.
We therefore welcome the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which Cameroon, I would like to point out, was among the first countries to sign and ratify.
As we all know, they pollute less and should therefore receive resources from the rich countries, which pollute more, to enable them to effectively promote the goals of the Paris Agreement at their level.


  
     194     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_COD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is one of our greatest concerns, as it is a threat to humankind and our fundamental rights.
For its part, my country intends to uphold all of its commitments, beginning with the ratification of the Paris Agreement, which is now under way.


  
     195     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_COG_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Similarly, the forced displacement of populations towards more hospitable areas, as a result of climate change, gives a measure of the distress of men, women and children — all victims.
As a truly global issue, the climate was the subject of promising discussions regarding its future at the Paris Conference in 2015.
For the collective consciousness of humankind, that is the place to express our compassion and solidarity with the populations that are victim to the harmful consequences of climate change.
In that context, my country initiated the Blue Fund for the Congo Basin on the sidelines of the twenty- second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I invite the international community to support the Congo in that initiative aimed at protecting our planet from global warming.


  
     196     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_COL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We can say much the same about climate change.
Colombia, the most biodiverse country in the world for its size, is also one of the most vulnerable to climate change.
We also enthusiastically support the Paris Climate Agreement, whose goals are a national commitment and should be for all if we want to preserve our common home — the Earth.


  
     197     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_COM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those repeated natural catastrophes are a resonating call to climate sceptics to remind them that now is the time for commitment and action if we wish to mitigate, as far as possible, the causes of such devastating threats linked to global warming.
Here, I would like to reiterate our tribute to the Governments of France and Morocco for the work accomplished at the twenty-first and twenty-second sessions of the Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, encouraging each of our countries, particularly island States, to give utmost priority to everything that has to do with the survival of our planet.
Global warming, migrations, conflicts, wars and terrorism
are all challenges that all continents, and Africa in particular, are facing and require urgent responses.
However, now that the emergency is over, we need to ensure that those results can be made long-term through a medium- and long-term energy policy and through the development of renewable energy with a low-carbon footprint.


  
     198     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CPV_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

For small island developing States, the swift and rapid implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate change is a priority, as it should be for the whole world.
While there have always been hurricanes, the bad news is that with climate change they tend to be more frequent, cruel and destructive.
Every new day is one day too late for vigorous and globalized action on the factors that trigger and accelerate climate change.
In that context, Cabo Verde has already deposited its instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and signed the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, concluded in New York on 7 July.


  
     199     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CRI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to reiterate my country’s commitment to working with him and all Member States to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, to help swiftly honour the pledges made in Paris and Marrakesh to mitigate climate change, to implement the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and to strengthen global governance and multilateralism as areas of supreme importance for the maintenance of international peace and stability.
To build a world based on the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement, the 20-year review of the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the treaties on the non-proliferation of weapons and the treaties on nuclear disarmament and prohibition is an acknowledgement of the multiple challenges that human communities face.
My generation’s grandparents could not have foreseen the consequences that industrialization and business models would have on the climate.
There is enough evidence to support the idea that a transformative solution to climate change is within human capabilities.
Also, along with countries of the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean, we have exercised a positive leadership position in the negotiations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, building bridges between negotiating groups and making proposals.
Our countries must adopt increasingly ambitious positions on environmental conservation and in the fight against climate change and understand the right to live in a healthy and ecologically balanced environment as an essential right of every human being and of future generations.
We reaffirm our intention to guide our economy towards carbon neutrality, as part of the pre-2020 voluntary actions, and we are expanding our long-term commitments towards the in-depth decarbonization of the economy.
In addition to the offsetting process of our forests, we are reducing emissions in critical sectors, such as transport, livestock and waste.
We have set an absolute emission limit for 2030 that is equivalent to a 25 per cent decrease in emissions as compared with 2012.
We believe that all those efforts not only encourage a focus on and the mitigation of climate change, but they also have an impact on human rights and public policies that promote gender equality, non-discrimination and the enjoyment of the rights of indigenous peoples.


  
     200     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CUB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, not even the rich will be able to enjoy the forecast prosperity if climate change is not stopped.
Cuba regrets the decision taken by the Government of the United States, which has historically been the principal greenhouse-gas-emitting country on the planet, to withdraw that country from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In 2016, and for the third consecutive year, the records for the average global temperature increase have been broken, which confirms that climate change is a threat to the survival of humankind and the sustainable development of our peoples.
We reiterate our solidarity with the small island developing States, especially those in the Caribbean and the Pacific, which are the most affected by climate change and for whom we request just, special and differentiated treatment.


  
     201     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_CYP_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

To name only a few examples, terrorism, regional conflicts, forced migration, the alarming effects of climate change and humanitarian crises are realities that have placed an enormous strain on our peoples and the environment.


  
     202     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_DJI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Even if climate change sometimes gives rise to scientific controversy, today it is an undeniable reality that is producing one major catastrophe after another.
In addition, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Sendai Declaration and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda represent an array of tools for strengthening the 2030 Agenda.
It also calls on countries to adopt policy frameworks in order to change their modes of production and consumption, as well as strategies to address climate change and disaster risk.


  
     203     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_DMA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

I come to the General Assembly straight from the front line of the war on climate change.
Warmer air and sea temperatures have permanently altered the climate between the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.
To deny climate change is to procrastinate while the Earth founders.
We in the Caribbean do not produce greenhouse gases or sulphate aerosols.
We have made no contribution to global warming that can move the needle, yet we are among the main victims on the front line.
It is pure devastation, as Dominicans bear the brunt of climate change.
The time has come for the international community to take a stand and decide whether it will be shoulder to shoulder with those suffering the ravages of climate change worldwide, whether we can mitigate the consequences of unprecedented increases in sea temperatures and levels, whether it will help us rebuild sustainable livelihoods or whether it will merely show some pity right now and afterwards flee, relieved to know that this time it happened to someone else.
The success of the twenty-first session of Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Paris, was a demonstration of the collective political will of Member States in taking action to combat climate change.
One year on, the call to action must be even more urgent if we are to curtail the impact of climate change on us and future generations.
The Green Climate Fund, which was created to help put mitigation measures in place and assist the victims of climate change, is commendable, but much more must be done to aid the countries that continue to bear the brunt of the impact of climate change.
The World Bank Facility must be recapitalized for greater coverage by using already committed funds from the Green Climate Fund.
It will enable us to rebuild our nation — not as it was, but so that it is far more capable of meeting the realities of rising sea levels and warmer oceans.
It would be to let 72,000 Dominicans shoulder the world’s conscience on climate change on their own.
Let them unleash the innovation and creativity of global citizens to spark a new paradigm of green economic development that stabilizes and reverses the consequences of human-induced global warming.
Let us take serious action against the realities of climate change.


  
     204     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_DNK_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Threats and challenges such as poverty, terrorism, climate change, violations of human rights, gender inequality, armed conflict, displacement and irregular migration are ever more interconnected.
Denmark is committed to an ambitious follow- up to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, at home and abroad.


  
     205     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_DOM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We often focus on material damage and ignore the human suffering caused by such disasters, whose lethal power has been aggravated by climate change.
We must recognize the inherent dangers of climate change, which are far more significant in the context of the geography of the Caribbean.
Nor is it enough to sign agreements on climate change.
We are therefore concerned about the fact that similar, or even more powerful, events resulting from climate change have the potential to set the development of ours and other Caribbean countries back 10 years.
I would also like to call on the countries of the United Nations to reflect anew, and urgently, on what we must do in order to counteract extreme climate events.
The scientific evidence for the relationship between natural disasters, man-made change and global warming is quite sufficient.


  
     206     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ECU_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We see a potential nuclear conflict, greater levels of inequality and poverty and a planet that must fight the devastating effects of climate change.
Looking at the devastation caused by climatic phenomena in recent weeks, I would be remiss if I did not express my solidarity with the peoples affected and turn to address one of the greatest challenges that humankind faces, that is, the responsibility to combat climate change.
The unlimited exploitation of the environment has led us to live with the consequences of climate change.
Those who pollute the most must take greater responsibility.
In the dialogue convened by the Secretary-General, I presented the Amazon initiative to stop deforestation and combat climate change.


  
     207     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_EGY_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is a global order that can face challenges such as climate change, natural disasters, diseases and epidemics, as well as other man-made crises — war, terrorism and huge discrepancies in the distribution of resources and development opportunities.


  
     208     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ERI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Eritrea has also embarked on a massive water and soil conservation programme and an afforestation programme as part of its comprehensive plan to enhance the environment and fight climate change.


  
     209     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ESP_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Extreme poverty, hunger, desertification, global warming and the preservation of forests and oceans are serious and urgent challenges that require concerted action.
The future livability of large areas of the planet is inextricably linked to fulfilment of the Paris Climate Change Agreement, and we must act accordingly.


  
     210     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_EST_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our world is unpredictable, and much of that unpredictability is the result of climate change.
Climate change could be counterbalanced by rapid changes in our wasteful way of life, aided by technology.
What I have just mentioned — and which has already been exacerbated by the real effects of climate change and, unfortunately, will be even more so in the future — has led to the highest number of displaced people the world has ever seen.
If we want to deal with the root causes of migration, we must tackle climate change, which has become the defining issue of our time.
Joint efforts to combat climate change on a global scale would not be possible without the coordinating role of the United Nations and the platform offered by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
We have confidence in the Fiji presidency’s ability to achieve concrete results during the twenty-third session of the Parties to the UNFCCC, to be held in November, building on last year’s achievements in Paris.
As the response led by society to the threats of climate change shows, big, universal problems can be tackled by inclusive societies.


  
     211     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ETH_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is not a fiction but real, and we are witnessing its devastating consequences for humankind and the planet.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were further reinforced by the adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which entered into force last November, thereby strengthening the global response to the threats posed by that phenomenon.
We in Ethiopia, like many other countries, are dealing almost every day with the adverse effects of climate change.
It is high time to act urgently and decisively to combat the adverse impacts of climate change, particularly its disproportionately bad effect on the most vulnerable countries, which, as has been repeatedly pointed out, bear almost no responsibility for causing climate change.
Climate change, not just poverty, is our major challenge.
The current climate-induced drought is affecting millions of people.
For the third consecutive year, after successfully dealing with the El Niño-induced drought in 2015, Ethiopia is confronting the adverse effects of climate change.
That is why I said earlier that climate change is real and poses a clear danger for humankind, because it undermines development gains.


  
     212     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_EU_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Finally, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is the cornerstone of global efforts to tackle climate change in an effective way and implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The EU remains determined to implement the Agreement swiftly and fully and to support our partners, in particular vulnerable countries, in the fight against climate change.


  
     213     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_FIN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change binds the South and the North together.
The rapid implementation of the Paris Climate Change Agreement is even more urgent than it was a year ago.
The Agreement has a clear goal — keeping rising temperatures below 2°C.
Our transition from fossil fuels to renewables and energy efficiency must be much faster than what we are seeing right now.
The Arctic is at the forefront of climate change.
It is warming twice as fast as the rest of the world.
We must find effective ways to slow down the warming of the Arctic.
One of those is reducing emissions of black carbon and methane and their impact on the Arctic.
The emissions should be reduced in the Arctic area first and foremost, but global action is also needed, as much of the black carbon is transported in from outside the area.
Finland currently chairs the Arctic Council, and combating climate change is one of our priorities.


  
     214     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_FJI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we all know, the global community faces a great number of challenges, of which climate change is only one.
So, as the incoming President of the twenty- third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-23), I am deeply conscious of the need to lead a global response to the underlying causes of such events.
And now we are determined to make a successful contribution to the wider security of the planet through our leadership of COP-23.
There is no escaping the fact that climate change is as great a threat to global security as any conflict.
Unless we tackle the underlying causes of climate change, we already know that some places will become unlivable
17-29407 23/29 and others will disappear altogether.
For the Fijian people, climate change is real.
It is clear that global warming changes our very understanding of what our national interests are.
What will the consequences be for global and regional security if nations begin to compete for safe land or have conflicts over the movements of climate refugees?
We will be powerless to protect our own people from the consequences of climate change.
That is why I took on the role of President of COP- 23
Morocco will pass the ball to me and the Fijian team in Bonn in November, and we thank the Moroccan presidency of COP-22 for making such great strides towards the goal of fully implementing the Paris Climate Change Agreement.
I want to assure the Polish presidency of COP-24 that Fiji will be supporting it throughout the entire process.
We did it with Sweden at the Ocean Conference in June, and we are equally proud to stand shoulder to shoulder with Germany to deliver on the goals that the Paris Agreement has outlined.
I am reaching out to governors, mayors and leaders of every sort across our societies, people of faith, people on the front line in the climate struggle, women and the young people who represent our future.
In order to reflect the importance of our grand coalition, I will be travelling between the two zones in Bonn, that of the formal negotiations and the climate action zone, along with my good friend and our climate champion, Mr. Inia Seruiratu, as well as my fellow Pacific leaders.
In the climate action zone — the Bonn zone — Fiji and Germany are bringing together all those who have a part to play in making our grand coalition a great transformation, including climate activists, companies at the cutting edge of technology, artists, creative people, dancers and performers.
It embodies engagement that is respectful, honest and cooperative and acknowledges that none of us, no matter how powerful, can solve the climate challenge on our own.
As we all know, the Paris Agreement calls for global warming to be kept well under 2°C above the average temperature of the industrial age and as close as possible to 1.5°C.
A year ago I stood here, before my appointment as President of COP-23, and called for 1.5°C to be our target (see A/71/PV.8).
In addition to ensuring decisive action to limit global warming, we must also do a lot more to make nations and communities more resilient where the effects of climate change are concerned.
We are also encouraged by the rapid development of clean, affordable alternative-energy solutions for countries across the world, which offers great promise that we can achieve the 1.5°C target and prosper.
I have no doubt that the role that I have embraced as COP-23 President is the most important ever undertaken by a Fijian leader.
To all the nations that have yet to ratify the Paris Agreement, I say, please do so.


  
     215     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_FRA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Such migrations are the result of politics, climate change or ethnic conflict.
I am thinking of his house, which lies in ruins, and of his fear that this may happen again because of climate change, which is leading to an increasing number of disasters.
We are all affected by climatic changes, from China to the Caribbean, in Russia and in the Horn of Africa.
We will build such a world right now by making our national contributions, as France has done by adopting its climate plan, which places us on the road to carbon neutrality.
Here I confirm that France will play its full role in this respect by allocating €5 billion per year to climate action between now and 2020.
At a time when some would wish us to stop, we must continue to advance, because climate change and extreme weather events will not stop.
We have been slow to address climate change and the new inequalities that unregulated capitalism creates.
Because every one of our challenges is global — terrorism, immigration, climate change, the regulation of the digital world.


  
     216     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_FSM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we witness current record-breaking megastorms, we cannot ignore their connection to climate change, especially to ocean warming and sea-level rise.
In the wake of those devastating events, we must not only stay committed to our collective fight against climate change, but we must also redouble our efforts.
Climate change is one of the most serious threats to global peace and security, endangering the very existence of our islands.
We reiterate our call for the appointment of a special representative on climate change and security.
Climate change mitigation is also essential to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, including the eradication of poverty, ending hunger, building resilient infrastructure and shared prosperity.
Without progress in fighting climate change, our sustainable development efforts will be futile.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change has provided an avenue to enhance cooperation in our fight against climate change, and the world must seize the moment.
Micronesia expresses grave concern that some countries have chosen to break with the international community and neglect the Paris Agreement, against the best scientific advice.
As a small island developing nation at the forefront of the battle, Micronesia calls on all States to fully engage in global efforts to implement the Paris Agreement, support the Green Climate Fund and access thereto, and contribute innovative climate solutions.
This is a story of a treaty that was designed to save the ozone layer and succeeded, but it has also made major contributions to climate-change mitigation.
The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is considered the most successful multilateral environmental treaty of all time.
Specifically, the Kigali Amendment allows the Protocol to regulate hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), which are chemicals used in refrigeration and air conditioning that can contribute significantly to global warming.
Phasing down the use of HFCs will help prevent 0.5°C of global temperature rise, and complementary energy-efficiency measures in the same sector could help avoid another 0.5°C of warming.
We thank the parties to the Montreal Protocol that have already ratified the Kigali Amendment, totalling eight out of the 20 needed for the Agreement to enter into force.
Along with the Paris Agreement, the Kigali Amendment is a major step towards the survival of small island States.
Only together can we overcome the threat of global climate change.


  
     217     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GAB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The future of our planet will depend on our determination to honour the commitments that we undertook in the Paris Agreement during the twenty- first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
We do not have the right to disappoint our peoples at this historic moment, because the challenges posed by global warming are not simply environmental in nature — they are also political, economic and security challenges.
With regard to my country’s ongoing commitment to those key issues, I have agreed to lead the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change for the next two years, following the term of my Egyptian brother President Al Sisi.
I will be responsible for bringing Africa’s voice to all climate-change negotiations.


  
     218     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GBR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

I think of climate change, which is depleting and degrading the planet we leave to our children.
It is that rules-based system that we have developed — including the institutions, the international frameworks of free and fair trade, agreements such as the Paris Climate Agreement, and laws and conventions like the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons — that enables a global cooperation through which we can protect those values.


  
     219     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GIN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

To that end, the 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Plan of Action and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change offer a reference framework.


  
     220     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GMB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

It has also incorporated the Sustainable Development Goals and other commitments contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The Paris Agreement is critically relevant to The Gambia because climate change means a lot more in our situation.


  
     221     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GNB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we all know, the world today is full of complex and grave challenges, such as hotspots of political instability and geopolitical tension around the world, the seriousness of which cannot be overlooked by the statesmen and citizens of the world; the scourge of terrorism, which unfortunately does not seem to be abating, as a phenomenon that deserves our unanimous condemnation; the human tragedy of migration waves, particularly those crossing the Mediterranean, and the saga of refugees; glaring social inequality, the expanding geography of poverty, and the intensity of human suffering, which we see in vast areas of the planet; and the sorrow of racial, gender and religious discrimination and the threat of climate breakdown on a planetary scale, with prospects of frightening, and not unlikely, consequences.
We consider the Paris Agreement to be a fundamental victory in harmonizing States’ environmental policies and in their promotion worldwide.


  
     222     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GNQ_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the fact that, despite the commendable initiatives in the 1990s to combat malnutrition, hunger, climate change and others, and despite the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals held in 2010, after more than 20 years not much progress has been seen in those areas.


  
     223     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GRD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our hearts and prayers go out to all the victims in our Caribbean region, in Mexico and across the world who are presently suffering the adverse effects of climate change and natural disasters.
I would like to say a few words on climate change.
I am sure that almost every speaker here mentioned something about climate change, because, as we all know, it is a very relevant and topical subject.
Certainly, based on recent activities in the Atlantic, we just cannot dispute that the climate is changing.
In fact, 97 per cent of actively publishing climate scientists agree that climate change is due to human activities.
We reiterate Grenada’s commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     224     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GTM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

On 25 January, Guatemala signed and ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Aware of its own high degree of vulnerability and threats of nature, Guatemala already has a national action plan on climate change, so that our domestic legislation may be carried out to achieve mitigation, adaptation and resilience to climate change.


  
     225     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_GUY_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is not a fiction or the invention of a few extremists.
Guyana signed and celebrated the Paris Agreement on Climate Change last year in this very Hall.
Twenty years after that international initiative, Guyana entered into an agreement with the Kingdom of Norway,
“to work together to provide the world with a relevant, replicable model of how Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, known as the REDD-plus programme, plus conservation and sustainable forest management, can align the development objectives of the forest countries with the need to combat climate change”.
The Shield’s forests capture and store carbon, mitigating the greenhouse effect.
The planet can be protected from the ravages of climate change and reckless damage to its ecology and biodiversity.


  
     226     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_HND_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our countries face major challenges due to climate change, the emergence of the nuclear threat, poverty, organized international crime, terrorism, racism, intolerance and human rights violations.
Climate change has been relentless, bringing a tragic series of hurricanes and tropical storms.


  
     227     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_HRV_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We therefore need to work together to fight the root causes of mass migrations — be it poverty, failing States and wars or climate change and natural disasters — while standing against exploitation and abuse in the context of human trafficking and people smuggling.
As we are witnessing the daily erosion of climate conditions and increasing natural disasters, more is required from humankind.
Croatia has already demonstrated its dedication to global efforts to preserve the environment by ratifying the Paris Agreement.
Two days ago I expressed our principled support to the new French initiative — the Global Pact for the Environment — aimed at better coordinating global action against climate change.


  
     228     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_HTI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Similarly, the unprecedented scale of destruction by consecutive hurricanes inflicted on our sister Caribbean countries, including Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica, as well as parts of Texas and Florida in the United States of America, shows the adverse effects of global warming on our planet.
In that regard, my country attaches particular importance to the fulfilment of commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement, especially since the prospects for sustainable development are shrinking in the wake of environmental crises and climate degradation.
We therefore hope that major greenhouse-gas-emitting countries will contribute the necessary resources for the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement.
We firmly believe that we must honour the pledge to equip the most vulnerable countries with the means to help them make the energy transition to renewable energies and bolster their resilience to the adverse effects of climate change.
In the Caribbean, and in Haiti in particular, the latest events have reminded us of the extent to which climate change affects our countries.
The victim countries, including the Republic of Haiti, do not have the spare resources to respond adequately to the tragic consequences of climate change.
The fund would be financed based on a percentage of the gross domestic product of the affected countries and by developed countries that emit greenhouse gases.
Haiti would like to take this opportunity to appeal to States Members of the United Nations that are affected by climate change to take this approach as well.
We intend to do our all to halt the accelerated degradation of the environment and make Haiti more resilient to climate change, improve basic essential public infrastructure, increase the provision of basic services, and stimulate the private sector and foreign direct investment.


  
     229     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_IDN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

A number of global commitments have been agreed, including the SDGs and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to name but two.
Despite the sceptics, climate change is real.
Like many small island developing States, Indonesia, with more than 17,000 islands, is experiencing changing weather patterns and rising sea levels.
Indonesia is therefore fully committed to the Paris Agreement.


  
     230     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_IND_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change stares us in the face, and its threat is growing.
I have identified climate change as one of the significant dangers to our existence.
India has already said that it is deeply committed to the Paris Climate Change Agreement.
The developed world must help the less fortunate through technology transfer and Green Climate Fund financing.


  
     231     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_IRL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Local and regional issues, from climate change, migration, armed conflict and hunger to the destruction of the marine environment in certain parts of the world, often become global issues, including in corners of the world that are far from the origins of the problems.
The United Nations delivers extraordinary results, such as the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
African countries are particularly affected by global challenges that lie outside their control in many ways, such as climate change, conflict and food insecurity.
Next year will be the twenty-fifth anniversary of the signing of the Oslo Accords.


  
     232     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ISL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The consequences of climate change, bad governance, terrorism and conflict have made our world seem more dangerous, less predictable and more chaotic, as our Secretary-General has put it.
Only policy, grounded in facts and evidence, can help us deal with such common threats as climate change and create a world that truly reflects our values.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development provide the blueprints for our success.
Droughts, sea-level rise, ocean acidification and other consequences of climate change have wide-ranging implications for all our communities.
Climate change is nowhere as visible as in the Arctic, with far-reaching consequences in the other parts of the world.
The melting of the polar ice in the North causes higher sea levels in the South.
In fulfilling our Paris Agreement obligations, we aim to reduce emissions by 40 per cent by 2030 collectively with our European countries.
We also support the work of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to increase food security and mitigate climate change through land restoration.
The dire situation of the 65 million people driven from their homes by conflict, economic hardship and climate change urgently requires a solution.


  
     233     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ITA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the past two years the European Union has been forced, perhaps for the first time, to abandon its “climate-controlled” environment — perhaps with difficulty — in order to tackle some of the greatest challenges to have emerged since the post-war period.
Italy continues to assure maximum support for the Horn of Africa — the key to stability for the entire region and to resolving a complex crisis aggravated by climate change, which has led to a devastating drought.
Climate change calls for the same dedicated effort.
Secretary-General Guterres pointed that out a few days ago when he said that, if we do not address climate change now, we will ruin many of our grandchildren’s opportunities for a positive and dignified life.
We need only think of the more than 200 million displaced persons who, from 2008 to 2015, were forced to leave their homes due to the devastating effects of climate phenomena.


  
     234     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_JAM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

For us in the Caribbean, climate change is not a philosophical concept or an academic debate.
How do small States like ours, many already facing adverse debt dynamics, mobilize the financing required to build climate-resilient infrastructure?
We also support calls for the development of a climate change vulnerability index to provide a standardized method for characterizing vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change.
That would enable international financial institutions and bilateral donors to better channel financial and technical resources towards countries most susceptible to loss and damage from climate change.
Jamaica ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in April, and regards that historic Agreement as critical to efforts to arrest the impact of climate change.
It is an inescapable fact that we contribute the least to carbon emissions and yet we bear the brunt of the damage.
Climate change also poses risks to tourism, which is an industry that owes its competitiveness to the pristine nature of our environment.


  
     235     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_JPN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The list of points I would have liked to raise here is long indeed — our contributions towards the rule of law, our determination to be steadfast in undertaking the Paris Agreement and our policy of addressing global infrastructure demand through quality investments.


  
     236     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KAZ_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the face of the reality of climate change, Kazakhstan, despite its abundant conventional energy resources, is committed to achieving a green economy by diversifying and developing alternative energy sources.
That enormous undertaking is clear evidence of Kazakhstan’s pledge to carry forward the Paris Climate Change Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     237     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KEN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world faces enormous challenges ranging from poverty, global terrorism, climate change, conflicts and inequality, to the unfolding threats to the liberal order that have governed the world in the post-war era.
Kenya agrees with and supports the priorities for action that the President has outlined to guide the focus on people, namely, peace and conflict prevention; migration; the Sustainable Development Goals; climate action; and human rights.
Climate change in our region is disrupting the livelihoods of millions of people and generating conflicts over dwindling resources, especially land and water.
Climate change today costs Kenya’s economy approximately 3 per cent in gross domestic product annually.
Kenya has enacted legislation to implement the Paris Agreement in order to address that problem.
We have committed to a 30 per cent reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030, relative to the business-as-usual scenario, and subject to the necessary financing, technology transfer and capacity-building, as agreed in Paris.
The capacity of our planet to sustain life is under threat, and the need to address climate change is not a choice; it is an urgent imperative.


  
     238     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KGZ_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The consequences of climate change now threaten all of us to some degree, and mountainous countries such as the Kyrgyz Republic are on the front lines, owing to the complex ecosystems associated with such terrain.
The problems of climate change are having an impact on every sector of the Kyrgyz Republic’s economy and are causing significant damage from increasingly frequent natural disasters in mountainous areas, including mudflows, landslides, floods and avalanches.
Due to climate change, various rare animals and the biodiversity of our mountain ecosystems are threatened with extinction.
Implementing the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Change Agreement and other agreements on the international agenda must remain the main priority of our joint action as an international community.


  
     239     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KHM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The interaction between population growth, massive migration movement, climate change and food insecurity renders these megatrends all the more worrisome.
Let me touch on two topics of relevance to the theme of this session of the General Assembly, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and climate change.
The 2030 Agenda is inextricably linked to many of the issues that perturb the world today, the most pressing being climate change, which is not only a direct threat in itself but is also a multiplier of many other threats — from poverty, diseases and food insecurity to mass migrations and regional conflicts.
In our view, climate change is a global human security issue that presents a serious and unprecedented threat to global peace and security more generally.
While our contribution to climate change is negligible and our domestic resources quite limited, we have nonetheless made clear commitments to low- carbon development and look forward to developing partnerships with other progressive nations that are committed to addressing this formidable challenge cooperatively and fairly.
I am pleased to note that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change acknowledges the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, meaning that they are based on countries’ respective capabilities and varying national conditions.


  
     240     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KIR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In recent years we have continued to witness human suffering around the world as a result of armed conflicts, terrorism, persecution, corruption, climate change and natural disaster, to name but a few.
We deal with human suffering in countries affected by rapid-onset disasters, but we must not forget the plight of those in countries such as Kiribati, Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, the Maldives and other small island developing States, who continue to suffer on a daily basis from the impact of the slow-onset climate disaster.
International processes and systems must be simplified and streamlined so as to enable enhanced participation and easy access to global resources like the Green Climate Fund.
We need swift global action on climate change and we require support to mitigate and alleviate the suffering of our people.
We are grateful for the support of all our development partners in our efforts to address the impact of climate change on our people in areas such as water and sanitation, coastal protection of our water resources, our critical public infrastructure and farmland.
Access to climate financing such as the Green Climate Fund takes too long to process and disburse.
That will enable us to fast-track financing support for our sustainable development agenda, especially in relation to climate change and disaster risk management.
Ideally, the Government will be looking at concessional debt financing with an interest rate of 1 to 2 per cent, to be repaid when climate or adaptation financing is available.


  
     241     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KNA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our oceans continue to get warmer due to our continued abuse of our planet Earth.
Warmer oceans feed and create horrific storms such as Irma and Maria.
Now more than ever, we bear witness to the compelling need to support the call for a reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions and all other actions and behaviours that aggravate the effects of climate change.
Climate change for us in the Caribbean is not a matter for academic rumination.
The humanitarian crisis unfolding in the Caribbean in the wake of Hurricanes Irma and Maria is stark testimony to the fact that climate change is not only real but poses an existential threat to our peoples, our countries and our civilization.
We have made commitments and signed multiple agreements, most recently the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, but the time for more urgent, concrete, tangible and collective action is now.
It is the most cruel irony of our times that we in the Caribbean, who are least responsible for climate change, are the ones most disastrously affected by it.
In order to attain a sustainable planet, those most responsible for climate change through their greenhouse gas emissions and other environmentally harmful practices must shoulder the responsibility of arresting and ameliorating the consequences.
The world must not stand by and allow the evils of climate change to force Caribbean people to become climate refugees.
In the fight against the disastrous effects of climate change, allow me to commend the work of many international agencies and organizations, as well as non-governmental actors.
The challenges that we face globally — from climate change to refugees to war and violence — require urgent action now.


  
     242     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KOR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

By expediting the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and making changes in its own energy policy, the Korean Government is also taking a lead role in supporting the climate-change responses of developing countries through the Global Green Growth Institute and the Green Climate Fund.


  
     243     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_KWT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In that connection, we would like to say that we value the vital and effective role played by his predecessor, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, over the past 10 years, and the great achievements accomplished during his tenure, such as the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the adoption of the SDGs, among others.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development faces major challenges, thanks to erroneous behaviour on the part of human beings over the years and the impact of natural disasters and greenhouse-gas emissions — challenges that only increase our international responsibility.
In the context of the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we must address the impact of climate change, as it represents one of the biggest impediments to achieving the SDGs, and we must do so by following the principle of shared but differentiated responsibility.


  
     244     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LBR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today we face the threat of climate change, the violence of terrorism, the risks and indignaty of migration and a nuclear escalation on the Korean peninsula.


  
     245     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LCA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

While some continue to doubt and deny the assessments of science, it is impossible to avoid the facts of climate change.
Let us acknowledge the fact that small island developing States have repeatedly warned the international community that a failure to respond adequately to climate change would betray our children and condemn future generations to certain doom.
Today, as we look to the world for leadership and partnership, we thank France, China and Germany for their continued leadership on climate-change issues.


  
     246     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LIE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

There are topics that make that task much easier, however; for example, climate change.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change does not end the threat of climate change, but it is our only realistic hope for addressing the issue together.


  
     247     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LKA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

My country, like the rest of the world, including the United States of America, is being affected by unprecedented climate and weather conditions.
In that regard, I believe that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is crucial, and we should agree that ensuring its implementation is essential for humankind and the world.


  
     248     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LSO_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The recent hurricanes that have devastated the Caribbean and parts of the United States, along with the torrential rains that have been witnessed in many countries, including floods of biblical proportions, are a stark reminder that climate change is with us and that urgent action is required in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which was concluded more than a year ago.
We reiterate our appeal that small countries such as Lesotho, including small island States, should be empowered with technologies for dealing with and adapting to climate-change challenges.
We therefore call on the international community to continue mobilizing and providing additional financial resources to Africa for climate-friendly technologies to address both the urgent adaptation and mitigation needs of Africa and other developing countries.
Similarly, we urge countries that have reneged on their support to the Paris Agreement to reconsider their position and return to the fold.


  
     249     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LUX_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Progress has been made in terms of funding to combat climate change.
That is also true in a whole series of other areas, above all in the fight against climate change.
We are fully committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we regret that one of the major international actors has distanced itself from that instrument.
There are multiple reasons for that, such as demographic pressure, climate change, conflict and humanitarian disasters.
The tensions in the international system are the result of major trends such as growing inequality, migratory flows and climate change.


  
     250     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_LVA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As the truly global Organization, the United Nations must be able to effectively respond to the serious global issues that we face: regional conflicts and humanitarian crises, the threat of terrorism, insecurity related to migration, climate change and poverty.
The far- reaching impact of climate change on global security cannot simply be disregarded.
We must carry on with our joint commitment to tackle climate change so that coming generations can live sustainably on this planet in a sustainable way.
Latvia is fully committed to the implementation of the Paris Agreement.


  
     251     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MAR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

First, there can be no doubt that while walls between nations have come down and the numbers of victims have diminished, there have emerged new threats to security, such as terrorism, extremism, separatist movements and climate change, that are no less dangerous than previous ones.
Morocco is committed to multilateralism and to finding the right answers to problems, based on the international community’s three important areas of responsibility — migration, climate change and the fight against terrorism and extremism — and attested to by the confidence that the international community has placed in Morocco, which bases its approach on aligning its national priorities with those on the United Nations agenda and on sharing its experience with African partners.
With regard to climate change, Morocco presided over the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Marrakech in November 2016.
Qualitative changes were made during the session in translating the Paris Agreement on Climate Change into practical measures, as well as the adoption of the Marrakech Declaration, which states that efforts to achieve development and sustainable development represent a high-level political commitment that should be honoured with a balanced and cooperative approach that meets the needs of least developed countries and developing nations.
His Majesty chaired the first African summit on climate change, which resulted in an ambitious and balanced action plan that reflects the continent’s commitment to shouldering its responsibilities with regard to international efforts.
At the national level, Morocco has adopted an ambitious policy for addressing the effects of climate change, particularly where renewable energy is concerned.
It should reduce our energy needs by 42 per cent by 2020 and 52 per cent by 2030, as well as lowering our carbon dependency.


  
     252     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MCO_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is putting humankind in imminent danger.
The Paris Climate Change Agreement has garnered 195 signatures and 159 States parties.


  
     253     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MDA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The devastating natural disasters occurring with increasing frequency in a warming world affect hundreds of millions of people, especially those living in extreme poverty.


  
     254     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MDG_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In order to effectively tackle poverty, we must sustainably create wealth for the largest possible number of people while ensuring the responsible management of natural resources and combating global warming.
carbon, inclusive and shared growth that creates jobs, in particular for women and young people, must be the economic model of tomorrow in order to ensure that future generations enjoy better living conditions in a protected environment.
Given climate change and the threats to natural resources, biodiversity and ecosystems, we have no choice but to act quickly and we must not waste time.


  
     255     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MDV_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our priority therefore was women, children and the disabled, and we initiated discussion on the link between climate change and its consequences on human rights.
There is no greater global threat than that posed by climate change.
In 1987, when the Maldives first spoke about sea-level rise, the science was still new and the threat relatively unknown.
We persisted in our advocacy because we believed that the threat of climate change deserved and, indeed, warranted global attention.
The Maldives hosted the first Small States Conference on Sea Level Rise in 1989.
We helped establish the Alliance of Small Island States — one of the most influential groups with regard to climate change and sustainable development — which we have chaired since 2015.
In 2008, the Maldives introduced the first United Nations resolution on human rights and climate change (Human Rights Council resolution 7/23), which was the first time that a United Nations document acknowledged that link.
Today, the threat of climate change is very real.
Today, climate change is becoming a reality for the rest of the world whether or not we choose to believe it.
I assure them that we will not stop our advocacy with regard to the effects of climate change.
The full implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is our priority.
The reduction of harmful emissions, transitioning to renewable sources of energy and investing in mitigation and adaptation are all crucial.
At home, we are investing in renewable energy through the transition to a low-carbon economy.
We have requested support to make our economy and our country more resilient to the shocks and impacts caused by climate change.
Taking care of our ocean is intimately linked to taking meaningful action on climate change.
Climate change, sustainable development, and the protection of our ocean are not trends or ephemeral infatuations.


  
     256     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MEX_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The fight against climate change, the preservation of biodiversity, the regulation of the arms trade, the new paradigm of international drug control policy and the response to natural disasters are some examples of that.


  
     257     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MHL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Earlier this year, my country experienced the tragic loss of our one-time Minister and climate ambassador, Mr. Tony de Brum, and I wish to express my gratitude to those who have conveyed their condolences.
Ambassador de Brum once said that for the Marshall Islands,
“[w]e are suffering the result of climate change and of the nuclear legacy and we have had nothing to do with either...
You can either do it slowly with climate change, or you can press a button and blow it up.
Climate change is real, and no credible scientist could ever make it otherwise.
We welcome the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, which stands as a truly robust, ambitious and long-term agreement.
We strongly support the leadership of our Pacific island neighbour, Fiji, as the incoming President of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and we hope that in its care and with its leadership, the parties will adopt a strong set of rules.
The Paris Agreement is only as strong as the political confidence that stands behind it.
We must match our own ambitions with respect to emissions with stronger approaches and closer bilateral work.
Practical approaches could allow us to work through existing controversies in order to achieve the global benefits of universal participation, including in the International Civil Aviation Organization, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the World Health Organization.


  
     258     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MKD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is plagued by severe humanitarian crises, new and protracted old conflicts, the intensification of terrorist attacks and violent extremism, human rights abuses and increasing climate-change effects.


  
     259     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MLI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a Sahelian country with an agro-sylvo-pastoral system, Mali remains deeply concerned about climate change, which is one of the major challenges involving the survival and development of humankind.
That is why I would like to reiterate Mali’s commitment to the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to which it is party.


  
     260     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MLT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Rather, is is about managing and addressing climate change, migration and food and water insecurity.
Likewise, we wholeheartedly welcome the November 2016 entry into force of the Paris Agreement.
Malta, together with all of its partners in the European Union, is strongly committed to the Paris Agreement.


  
     261     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MMR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The intensity and frequency of such natural disasters are evidence of climate change, now becoming a reality that poses a serious threat to our planet.
Myanmar is highly vulnerable to the negative effects of climate change, so as a country frequently affected by storms, floods and droughts we welcome the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I am pleased to inform the Assembly that yesterday Myanmar deposited with the Secretary-General its instruments of ratification of the Paris Agreement and the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.


  
     262     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MNE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Paris Climate Agreement constitute a universal platform for transformation and progress.
Montenegro strongly supported the negotiations on a new international accord on climate change.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a foundation for further efforts in long-term climate preservation.
As part of the efforts to mitigate climate change, Montenegro financially contributes to the Trust Fund of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.


  
     263     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MNG_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mongolia has been exposed to multiple environmental challenges as a result of climate change, including desertification, drought, land degradation and wild forest fires.
All of us, developed and developing nations alike, are committed to working together to address newly emerging issues induced by climate change.
For its part, Mongolia has developed its intended nationally determined contribution and will work to implement its target of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 14 per cent by 2030.
They offer countries in the region a wide range of economic, social and environmental benefits, including energy security, job creation and the reduction of carbon-dioxide emissions.


  
     264     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MOZ_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we strive to accomplish these goals, we are challenged to find the ways and means to honour the commitments undertaken in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The challenges we faced and the experiences we gained in the implementation of other globally agreed development goals in the past underline the need for greater commitment from our development partners to scale up and honour their assistance and for funding pledges made to support climate resilience, mitigation and adaptation, as well as disaster-prevention efforts in developing countries.
This support is of paramount importance to mitigating the effects of climate variability, whose devastating effects have been laid bare in the last two months in several States Members of this body.
A focus on people on a sustainable planet also requires urgent attention to climate change.
Today more than ever before, the challenges posed by the adverse impact of climate change are noticeable.
Everyday we are confronted by the destructive impact of climate change, challenging those who continue to harbour doubts about the effects of human activities on the environment and on the climate.
The great human losses and the destruction of infrastructure as a result of the scale and ferocity of these storms prove once again that, beyond our convictions, we need to reflect and to act as a common front to face the menaces arising from climatic change.
To that end, we reaffirm the importance of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change as an instrument to strengthen the much-needed partnerships for adaptation and mitigation measures.


  
     265     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MRT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

“Our region faces grave dangers in terms of climate change, terrorism, organized crime, drugs, illegal weapons and illegal migration.
“Climate change is a great challenge facing us all in terms of sustainable development, particularly in the Sahel and Sahara area.
We also welcomed the historic 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change and hope that all parties will uphold their commitments.


  
     266     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MUS_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Addressing climate change is central and critical to the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
With the increasing number and intensity of climate-related disasters, including storms, droughts and flash floods, it would be naïve on our part to dismiss climate change.
Mitigating the effects of climate change and effectively implementing the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction will require substantial effort and resources, especially for SIDS, if we want to be more resilient in the aftermath of those natural calamities.
Although we welcome the generous pledges made thus far, including the establishment of the Green Climate Fund, we need to streamline and simplify the procedures for SIDS to access those funds, especially in the light of recent events.


  
     267     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_MWI_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

But agriculture is a challenging sector, given the current climate variability affecting many parts of the world.
Climate change tops the list.
The suffering caused by climate change is evident everywhere; it is real.
I therefore appeal to all Member States to consider strategies and avenues of collaboration that will enable us to adapt to the fast-changing climate.
Apart from climate change, our world is also collectively facing the threat of terrorism.


  
     268     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NAM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

When we adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and acceded to the Paris Agreement, we not only reaffirmed the centrality of multilateralism; we also reaffirmed the reality of climate change.
What has happened in Sierra Leone, the Caribbean and some parts of the United States — and we must also note the recent earthquake in Mexico — serve as grim reminders that climate change is real.
We must increase our resolve to address the challenges of climate change.


  
     269     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NER_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

For those who have the flaw of forgetting or neglecting nature, it has reminded us that often it can be indomitable and has shown us that climate change can at times bring disaster and irremediable losses.
The Niger, a State party to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, will respect its commitments.
We are convinced that there is no alternative for saving our planet and especially for preserving it for future generations.
The Paris Agreement is not only the realization of our awareness, but also proof of our shared responsibility before history.


  
     270     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NGA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Some of the most significant events in that period include the Iran nuclear deal, the Paris Climate Agreement and the North Korean nuclear crisis, which is of grave concern.


  
     271     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NIC_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We urgently need ambitious action to combat climate change.
We note with great concern the unprecedented temperatures that are being registered all over the world and the lack of interest in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions.
The Government and the people of Nicaragua will continue to advocate for a commitment to climate justice, as well as for an essential compensation policy that can be translated into direct and unconditional assistance.


  
     272     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NLD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The problems confronting today’s world — climate change, migration, food security, terrorism and cybercrime — are by definition international.
Investing in human dignity, eradicating poverty, fostering climate resilience and promoting economic and social progress will reduce the incidence of conflict, instability and despair — development and lasting peace, all in one package.
The impact of climate change on the water cycle is brought home to us every day, all over the world, sometimes violently.
The United Nations now predicts that 200 million people will have become displaced by 2050 because of climate change.


  
     273     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NOR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have only one planet, and every nation’s and every citizen’s security and welfare depend on our ability to protect our natural environment and climate.
The United Nations provided the leadership that united the countries of the world through the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which was an important step towards ensuring the sustainability of our planet.


  
     274     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NPL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The global community today is facing a more complex and polarized environment than before, with multiple transnational challenges ranging from terrorism, climate change and energy deficiency to food insecurity, mass migration and extremism.
Poor and vulnerable countries suffer disproportionately from climate change despite their negligible greenhouse-gas emissions.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change should be implemented in coordination with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     275     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NRU_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

More than most, our prospects depend on a stable planet, including a safe climate and healthy oceans.
That is why Nauru was among the first countries in the world to ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and why we have made the implementation of our national contribution to the Agreement our top priority.
With regard to climate action in developing countries, implementation is a collective responsibility.
Nauru’s climate priorities fall into four categories — renewable energy, land rehabilitation, water security and infrastructure-proofing.
While the Paris Agreement was a historic diplomatic achievement, we must remember that we remain well off track for achieving its central goal of keeping warming below 1.5°C.
Failure to achieve that goal would be devastating for small islands, but we should not pretend that any additional warming is safe.
How will we share declining freshwater resources as glaciers disappear and drought becomes commonplace in many regions?
How will we protect the millions who are rendered homeless when low-lying coastal areas are inundated?
Climate change will be the defining security challenge of the century, and we are simply not prepared for life on a hotter planet.
For that reason, Nauru supports the proposal by the Pacific small island developing States (SIDS) that the United Nations appoint a Special Representative on climate and security, whose work must begin with an assessment of the United Nation’s capacity to respond to climate disasters.
In order for the people of Nauru to benefit from those global efforts to protect the climate and ocean, we will have to build genuine and durable partnerships that are based on mutual respect and a clear understanding of the real needs on the ground.
It wishes to contribute and participate freely through the partnerships and activities of the United Nations system, including the Sustainable Development Goals, the World Health Organization, UNESCO, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and other United Nations-related agencies and activities.


  
     276     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_NZL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The speed with which parties ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change has demonstrated the strength of commitment to take meaningful action on climate change.
New Zealand is among the many countries committed to the Paris Agreement.
The Pacific is at the forefront of vulnerability to the effects of climate change.
We are therefore pleased to support Fiji’s presidency of this year’s Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
New Zealand has taken a lead role in advocating internationally for the reform of fossil-fuel subsidies, which lead to wasteful consumption, put renewable energy at a disadvantage and depress investment in energy efficiency.
New Zealand and was pleased with the outcomes of the recent Pacific Island Forum Leaders Meeting, which had a strong focus on fisheries and climate change issues.


  
     277     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_OMN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We consider it essential to discover the causes of weakness in international policies and adopt a more effective approach to settling regional and international problems, including climate change and other issues that affect the security and stability in the world.
The global breakthrough in technology achieved through the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is an important gain for humankind.
Several natural disasters recently have struck the world, which should convince all States that it is in their interest to adhere to the Paris Agreement.


  
     278     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PAK_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

While the pillars of world order are being eroded, the imperative of international cooperation — the need to address poverty, disease, climate change, nuclear proliferation, terrorism and forced displacement — is intensifying.
Climate change poses a new and existential threat to humankind’s future.
Extreme climate events are multiplying.
As one of the States most vulnerable to the effects of climate change, Pakistan believes that it is in our collective interest to pursue and realize the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and build a new and greener model for growth and development.
The development challenge has become even more difficult owing to the combined constraints of climate change, increasing protectionism, the deterioration of international cooperation and the proliferation of conflicts.


  
     279     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PER_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

For Peru, the United Nations is essential for building a peaceful and sustainable future, facing global challenges such as climate change, terrorism or corruption, and strengthening international governance in order to obtain a more humane, open and inclusive globalization.
Peru reaffirms its commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its implementation.
Our country is particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, which is seen in ocean warming, shrinking glaciers and the impact on the availability of water resources, the loss of biodiversity and other extreme phenomena.
Climate change is a real threat that knows no borders.


  
     280     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PHL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

President Rodrigo Roa Duterte seeks to reverse that linkage by addressing the adverse effects of climate change — to which the Philippines is most vulnerable — through disaster-risk reduction and the strict implementation of laws protecting the environment.


  
     281     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PLW_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Such record-breaking storms are a harbinger of worse to come on a hotter planet.
Palau, in the Pacific, has experienced at first hand the impact of climate extremes.
By coming together and finally agreeing on the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we established a global commitment to begin the process of reducing greenhouse gases to acceptable levels.
In the area of climate change, we must continue to work to achieve the full implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I would like to congratulate my colleague from the Pacific His Excellency Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama of Fiji on his imminent ascension to the presidency of the upcoming twenty-third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
In order to strengthen his efforts, Palau is seeking the appointment of a Special Representative of the Secretary-General for climate and security.


  
     282     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PNG_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are facing such serious adverse impacts as an uncertain global economy, climate change, the declining health of our marine habitats and heightened security fears.
Climate change is real, and it is claiming lives and destroying communities.
Papua New Guinea and other Pacific island nations remain highly vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change, including extreme tropical storms, severe droughts and seawater flooding many coastal communities.
The seeds of climate change that we see today were laid by developed countries over past decades and centuries.
The world needs to step up its action and respond effectively to climate-change challenges by making further commitments to reduce emissions and help affected communities.
We are committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and to implementing domestic policies to reduce our own emissions.
We welcome and support Fiji’s presidency of the twenty-third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and will work together for a successful meeting in Bonn.


  
     283     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_POL_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

For a number of years, Poland has been part of global efforts to protect the environment and combat climate change.
We have fulfilled our obligations in that regard, surpassing our reduction targets under the Kyoto Protocol.
We have worked in concert with the European Union to make an exceedingly ambitious global contribution to the Paris Climate Change Agreement, and will continue our low- carbon development efforts with the aim of protecting our climate.
Next year, for the third time, Poland will have the honour of hosting the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 24).
COP 24, to be held in the city of Katowice, will be of key importance, owing to the Conference’s expected adoption of the implementation package for the Paris Agreement.
We will continue to demonstrate leadership in climate negotiations, in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, while ensuring that all States can participate and that the discussions are transparent, while respecting countries’ varying domestic conditions and their choices along the path to reducing emissions.


  
     284     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PRT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In that regard, the Paris Agreement is a milestone in reducing the impacts of climate change.
Portugal will comply with the European Union’s voluntary commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent by 2030, as compared to 1990 levels, and will contribute to the Green Climate Fund, which is in place to help developing countries adapt to climate change.
Diplomacy for peace, diplomacy for human rights, the climate agenda, the 2030 Agenda — my country is part of and contributes


  
     285     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PRY_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Problems such as poverty and inequality, climate change, transnational organized crime, drug trafficking — which undermines democratic institutions — and terrorism, among others, must be dealt with collectively.
The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its firm commitment to implementing the provisions of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and encourages other States, particularly those that are most responsible for producing greenhouse gases, to take all necessary measures to save our planet from the consequences of global warming.


  
     286     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_PSE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Tenth, we once again affirm our commitment to respecting human rights and international conventions, and to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and all other treaties and conventions that we have acceded to.


  
     287     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_RUS_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Without mutual trust, we cannot hope for the effective implementation of the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals or the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, or for solutions to global issues that are so crucial to developing countries, such as food security, demographics and health care.


  
     288     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_RWA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have the tools and the mandates to address the global challenges of our day, from climate change to peacebuilding to human equality and development.
This is among the most important actions that a country can take in directly tackling climate change and reaffirming its commitment to the Paris Agreement.
Fewer than 15 additional ratifications are needed in order for the Kigali Amendment to come into force in 2019.


  
     289     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SDN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

It stretches from Dakar in the west to Djibouti in the east, to achieve environmental balance in the African desert and to reduce the impact of climate change.
Africa will be the main victim of climate change if this is not averted.


  
     290     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SEN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Where the environment is concerned, global warming has reached an unprecedented level, while agreed-on commitments to addressing the related crises, including adequate Green Climate Fund financing, have been slow to materialize.
It is vital to safeguard the integrity of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     291     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SGP_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The recent adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development showed that multilateralism can respond to new challenges, especially when there is political will and collective commitment.
When dealing with global issues such as climate change, there is no alternative to a multilateral approach.


  
     292     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SLB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

While the threat of nuclear warfare is a genuine concern to us all, for our small island developing States the effects of climate change that we are currently witnessing at an alarming rate on our shores present a clear and present danger.
The concentration of carbon dioxide in our oceans now stands at 400 parts per million.
For Pacific nations like ours, climate change continues to be our enemy.
In Solomon Islands, we have lost six islands to the effects of climate change.
The horrors of the impact of a nuclear attack are undeniable, but the slow onset of tragedy caused by the adverse impact of climate change is just as cruel.
That is why the Pacific small island developing States have been requesting that the Security Council also address the issue of climate change.
While useful, the building of sea walls and wave-breakers to mitigate some of the effects of climate change is a mere Band-Aid solution.
We call on all major greenhouse-gas emitters to meet their national determined contributions for reducing emissions.
We strongly urge the United States of America to reconsider its position on the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
As a fellow Pacific island country, we congratulate Fiji on its upcoming assumption of the chairship and look forward to discussions on effective implementation of the Paris Agreement.
I must also thank the Board of the Green Climate Fund for approving $86 million for the Tina River Hydro Project when it met in South Korea early this year.
The project will create more than 200 jobs and offset more than 44,000 tons of carbon dioxide per annum in diesel emissions.


  
     293     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SLE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

I commend and thank their predecessors, Mr. Peter Thomson and Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for their leadership and outstanding commitment to advancing our collective aspirations and energy, maintaining global peace and security and achieving sustainable development for all, as well as for their concern regarding climate change.
The seemingly unending cycles of conflict and violence, the destructive and devastating impacts of climate change, the spread of terrorism and the largest refugee, migration and humanitarian crises in recent history continue to call into question the effectiveness of our present international machinery, as well as our ability to promote sustainable peace and a decent life for all.
“While I once again take this opportunity to thank the international community for its support during these moments of grief and need, let me state that such disasters are a stark reminder that climate change is real.
They also demonstrate the level of Sierra Leone’s vulnerability to climate change.
I therefore reiterate Sierra Leone’s support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and urge concerted global efforts in dealing with this immediate, real threat to humankind.


  
     294     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SLV_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

In another area, we must adopt urgent measures to combat the negative effects of climate change, which continue to compromise economic development, natural resources and the well-being of countries such as El Salvador, which produces few greenhouse gases.
It concerns us to see regression in the international consensus to fight the negative effects of climate change at the multilateral level.


  
     295     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SMR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Their interconnected nature reminds us that countries must act together to be more effective in the fight against climate change, global terrorism and poverty and to build more inclusive, safe and just societies for all.
Together with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, it also reflects the ambition and commitment of Member States to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2020, giving our planet and its inhabitants the chance to live longer and in better conditions.


  
     296     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SOM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, Somalia and many other countries that are on the receiving end of climate change have been unable to come up with the resources required to tackle this ever-growing problem.
In that regard, we urge all Member States to continue improving the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which has the potential to mitigate the issue’s effects.


  
     297     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SSD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

With regard to climate change, although South Sudan’s greenhouse-gas emissions are negligible, it is one of the countries worst affected by climate change.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it is the fastest-warming country in the region, with flooding and the loss of biodiversity and of livelihoods.
I am glad to inform the Assembly that South Sudan has ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and has prepared its national determined contributions and national adaptation programme of action to implement the projects embodied in both documents.


  
     298     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_STP_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we achieve — as we believe it possible to do — the eradication of poverty and hunger, the promotion of social and economic development, the protection of the rights of all, gender equality, the empowerment of women, a reversal of climate change, access to quality services and the provision of special attention to vulnerable groups, then we will see a positive evolution in the living conditions within our nations.
Combating the phenomenon of climate change is perhaps the most complex objective requiring all humankind to participate.
In that context, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a historic, broad-based consensus on the challenges we face in that area and the financial and technological means to overcome them.
Sao Tome and Principe, a small island developing State, has spared no effort in that regard, and I want to assure those present of our firm commitment to being at the forefront of implementing climate-change mitigation measures.
Cooperation agreements should be established with ambitious funding for climate issues and guarantees for the effective and efficient transfer of technology by the more developed countries.


  
     299     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SUR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Thus, it is ironic that Suriname is facing such threats of climate change, while at the same time we are making tremendous contributions to mitigate climate change.
As a high- forested, low-deforestation country with 90 per cent forest cover — the highest in the world — Suriname provides regulation services to the global climate, including as a carbon sink.
While Suriname’s greenhouse-gas emissions have historically been negative, it is a challenge to enhance the country’s economic development while maintaining that unique position in the world.
To achieve that goal, Suriname is ready to partner with Governments, the global community and other stakeholders to transform our economy into one in which environmental protection — including through the REDD+ programme for reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation in developing countries — social advancement and economic prosperity take central stage.
The Government acknowledges that the extractive sector producing gold, fossil fuels and other marketable minerals will remain critical for our economic development in the foreseeable future.


  
     300     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SVK_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Be it 100-year floods taking place with high frequency, hurricanes that strike harder than before, or devastating droughts that force people to abandon their homes, such disasters are not warnings of future climate change; they are powerful natural events are features of the new environment we live in now.
Last year’s adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was an unprecedented demonstration of collective will to address the challenges arising from the climate change our societies must face.
We pushed for the swift ratification of the Paris Agreement under our presidency of the European Union last year.
I confirm today that we will implement all the national measures necessary to fulfil our obligations, because the Paris Agreement must be implemented in full.
Who would have imagined that one of the most important topics on the United Nations agenda would be climate change?


  
     301     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SVN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Together, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Change Agreement provide a framework and vision for a more sustainable planet in the future and prosperity for all.


  
     302     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SWE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the sustaining peace agenda are powerful illustrations of what we can achieve together.
The oceans are also affected by and, in return, affect our climate.
Climate change will increase the frequency and intensity of such events.
Left unchecked, climate change will wash away development gains and increase instability and conflict.
To the few who still doubt the overwhelming evidence that climate change is real, I ask: are they really willing to take the chance?
Especially when we see that new technologies offer the opportunity to simultaneously reduce emissions and grow economies.
Sweden is already proving that is possible and has set a goal of zero net greenhouse emissions by 2045.
All countries must join the effort to achieve the decisive transformations needed to reduce emissions and prevent the worst effects of climate change from happening.
With 160 States parties to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change so far, the global commitment remains strong.


  
     303     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SWZ_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We commend you for immediately identifying six overarching priorities for your tenure, which touch on attaining peace, giving impetus to the Sustainable Development Goals, climate change commitments, equality and human rights for all, among others.
We are confident that under the able leadership of the Secretary-General, the United Nations will reach greater heights in its support for countries in implementing the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Sustainable Development Goal 13 calls for urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.


  
     304     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_SYC_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We urge the international community to not only respond generously to those countries’ calls for support, but also to take the need to upscale the urgent action required far more seriously in order to prevent, prepare for, adapt to and recover from such increasingly destructive climate-related disasters.
That is a problem that could worsen owing to the increasing movements of populations as a result of climate change.
For there to be peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet, it is not enough just to throw more resources — financial, human and others — into implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The same inclusive approach applies to stepping up our implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in the light of recent developments.
According to the latest science, all stakeholders need to be involved if the international community is to drastically upscale our collective climate action so as to achieve our targets.
There is something that I said at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Marrakech in November 2016 that is even more pertinent today, as we head towards the next Conference of the Parties, led by our fellow small island developing State of Fiji and supported by Germany.
Referring to the Paris Agreement, I said,
“For the very first time in history, a global climate-change deal, giving renewed hope to the world, has been reached.
Last year Seychelles reached an agreement with the Paris Club and others on a first-of-its-kind $21 million debt- for-adaptation swap to protect 30 per cent of our 1.37-million-square-kilometre exclusive economic zone, partly as an ecosystem-based adaptation to climate change.
We thank our many partners at home and abroad who have helped us on this bold and exciting new path to sustainable development and resilience to climate change and who continue to be actively involved.


  
     305     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TCD_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The letter and spirit of the theme of our current session and the commitments contained in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change should encourage the international community to save Lake Chad.
Whether with regard to economic, climatic or environmental questions or domestic or international issues, Chad has always been guided by concern to ensure the safety and welfare that the citizens of the world have the right to expect from their leaders.


  
     306     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TGO_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

“Those challenges that our State faces, in particular the developing countries, are a reminder of the importance of implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development, all of which we adopted together.
“With regard to the challenges facing our States, I call on the entire international community to take responsible action to mitigate the threat of global warming.
My country, which often faces the vagaries of coastal erosion, flooding and irregular rainy seasons, believes that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change remains an ideal framework for carrying out joint initiatives that will safeguard the climate.


  
     307     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_THA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is going through a critical time and is facing a series of shared challenges, such as extremism, terrorism, ongoing conflicts and irregular migration, along with environmental degradation, climate change and natural disasters.


  
     308     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TJK_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We, the representatives of the international community, adopted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change two years ago.
The goals enshrined in that critical document determine the major obligations and efforts of the international community in reducing carbon dioxode emissions in the atmosphere, adaptation to climate change and transitioning to a low-carbon economy.
Climate change accelerates the melting of glaciers, which affects the rise of the water level in rivers and negatively affects certain sectors of the national economy.
With 93 per cent of its territory surrounded by mountains, Tajikistan, owing to its geographical location, faces the devastating consequences of climate change and natural disasters.
Over the past 30 years, Tajikistan has lost more than 1,000 of its 13,000 glaciers due to melting as a result of climate change and temperature rise.
This comes at a time when the industrial capability of Tajikistan, which is the main source of its carbon dioxide emissions, is not especially large.
It is obvious that the accelerated melting of glaciers adversely affects water levels in the region.
In this regard, the time has come for us to turn our words into actions and demonstrate our resolve to implement the goals of the Paris Agreement.
In our view, one way to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement is to adhere to the green economy recommmendations and promote the comprehensive use of renewable energy sources.


  
     309     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TLS_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is already having a growing impact on the development conditions for society and on the future of the planet.
For small island developing States, the effects of climate change represent an existential issue that requires attention and effort from us all.


  
     310     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TON_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We fully support Fiji’s presidency this year of the twenty-third Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, with a view to strongly addressing the adverse impacts of climate change and the urgent need for innovation in adaptation for SIDS.
We reiterate our call for the appointment of a special representative for climate and security to ensure that the United Nations system has the appropriate tools to respond effectively and efficiently to climate change as an existential threat and a mounting security challenge for SIDS and the entire international community.
Mitigation efforts are also essential to overcoming the challenges of excessive dependence on imported fossil fuels.
However, we continue to experience the negative effects of ocean degradation on our livelihoods and culture, owing to anthropogenic activities and the devastating interrelated effects of climate change.


  
     311     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TTO_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

From shifting weather patterns to global warming to sea-level rise, the impacts of climate change are global in scope and unprecedented in scale.
In the face of the recent natural catastrophes, how can one deny the scientific findings that climate change is real and that it is here and indeed upon us?
The events of the past months in the Caribbean remind us all once more that small island developing States (SIDS) remain at the forefront of the impact of climate change.
In order to achieve human and global sustainable development, we must treat unmitigated climate change and global temperature rise as a priority issue.
Trinidad and Tobago is doing its part and remains committed to achieving the overarching objectives of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Through our nationally determined contribution, Trinidad and Tobago has indicated its intention to reduce by December 2030 greenhouse-gas emissions in its public- transportation sector by 30 per cent, in comparison with 2013 levels.


  
     312     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TUN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are confident that boosting the economy and development of our country, while working to ensure social peace and security, requires the active engagement of the international community at large in supporting our implementation of all the ambitious goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in particular those that address environmental challenges, while mitigating the impacts of climate change on the economies of developing countries and the livelihoods of their people.
We therefore signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015, and we voluntarily committed to reducing our gas emissions by 41 per cent by 2030.
Our commitment has also been demonstrated by the nationally determined contribution devoted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     313     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TUV_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change last year raised our hopes that, in recognizing the existential threat to us all, Member States would commit to the common cause of fighting climate change, adapting to its impacts and strengthening the ability of developing States, especially the most vulnerable, to deal with them.
The Paris Agreement is our common hope of a decent life on a sustainable planet.
This hope, however, dimmed with the announcement by the United States that it will abandon the Paris Agreement.
This decision risks undermining our global efforts to save and protect the livelihoods of the people who are at risk from the impacts of climate change.
These are the marginalized, the vulnerable, the poor, the women and the children who suffer the most from climate change, especially those who live on low-lying islands and incoastal areas.
We are nevertheless encouraged this morning by the strong leadership of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and French President Emmanuel Macron on climate change.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s intention to convene a dedicated climate summit in 2019 to mobilize political support.
It will be an important opportunity, in our view, to review our progress and momentum and, most importantly, to enhance our commitment to taking urgent and credible actions to reverse global warming.
We are also encouraged by the Secretary-General’s commitment to intensifying high-level political engagement to limit the temperature rise to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and aiming at limiting the increase to 1.5°C.
We are likewise heartened by his dedication to rallying the United Nations system to better support Member States by mobilizing resources and strengthening partnerships in their pursuit of climate action.
Indeed, without enhanced commitment and genuine partnerships, the Paris Agreement will not save us all, especially the most vulnerable.
Climate change is a risk multiplier on all factors of development.
It is for this reason that we reiterate our call for the appointment of a special representative on climate change and security in order to enhance international focus, coordination and commitment.
In the same vein, we call for climate change and security to be a permanent item on the agenda of the Security Council, given its direct threat to global peace and security.
Instead, as the Male’ Declaration on the Human Dimension of Climate Change recognized in 2007, “the impacts of climate change pose the most immediate, fundamental and far-reaching threat” to individuals and communities in these most vulnerable States and threaten a wide range of human rights, including “the right to life, the right to take part in cultural life, the right to use and enjoy property, the right to an adequate standard of living, the right to food and the right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health”.
Ten years ago we recognized that climate change was the single greatest major threat to our peace, security and, ultimately, survival.
Under current warming trends, our islands may be submerged under the sea within the next 50 years.
If and when that happens, we will be forced to abandon our islands, even though we contribute the least to global warming and sea-level rise.
It is for this very reason that we continue to call for enhanced global commitment and partnerships in the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
Secondly, we all know that membership of our global family of the United Nations has the tools and resources to save Tuvalu and low-lying States from the impacts of climate change.
Sadly, displacement owing to the impacts of climate change has not drawn the same international concern and response, despite the fact that it has the very real potential to become a serious threat to global peace, security and human rights.
In exactly the same manner, we must now formulate effective international systems to protect the human rights of people displaced by the impacts of climate change and avoid further uncontrolled mass migration and mass violation of human rights.
This preparation must include developing the appropriate international legal tools to cope with the complex and multifaceted challenges posed by climate change.
In particular, the current refugee regimes that were developed to cope with traditional threats do not adequately protect people forced to leave their homes by the impacts of climate change.
We therefore reiterate our proposal for a United Nations resolution on the establishment of a legal process to protect the human rights and, ultimately, save the lives of people displaced by the impacts of climate change.
We are grateful to the members of the international community for their generous support through the work of the Green Climate Fund, the Global Environment Facility and the United Nations Development Programme, as well as through other donors and bilateral partners.
While grateful for their goodwill, we have established our own Tuvalu Climate Change and Disaster Survival Fund as a facility to help people respond quickly to the impacts of climate change.
This is irrespective of sea-level rise.
We cannot ignore and risk leaving behind those who hope for a decent life but are being constrained by violence, natural disasters, violation of human rights, atrocities and the impacts of climate change.
We are but on one big canoe for humankind and, as Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said this morning, no one country has the right to jump ship on climate change.
It is our hope that, with this global pact on the environment and the Paris Agreement, we can save Tuvalu.


  
     314     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_TZA_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today, the world is facing myriad challenges, which include new and old threats such as international terrorism and other international crimes, persistent poverty, hunger and climate change, as well as global inequalities in economic and social status among nations.
The striving for peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet should focus on ending poverty, promoting economic and social prosperity, addressing inequality and injustices, and tackling the adverse impacts of climate change.
Climate change has become an existential challenge to the entire planet Earth.
All parts of the world are increasingly experiencing the adverse impact of climate change, manifested in persistent droughts, land degradation, coastal erosion, ocean temperature rise and extreme weather patterns such as cyclones, typhoons, hurricanes and floods.
Against that background, I would like to express my Government’s heartfelt sympathies and condolences to our brothers and sisters in the Caribbean, South Asia, Mexico, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, the United States of America and all around the world who have recently been victims of the disastrous impact of climate change.
For all of us, this should be a wake-up call and a reminder that climate change has no boundaries and can potentially wipe out economic and development achievements in the blink of an eye.
It is fortunate that we have the Paris Agreement, which already entered into force in November 2016, to address this problem.
To honour our joint efforts that gave birth to the Paris Agreement under the leadership of France, we should implement, in letter and spirit, all of its articles.
Assistance to developing countries should go beyond mere mitigation measures and should target adaptation measures with built-in green technologies to control carbon emissions from the outset.


  
     315     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_UKR_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is also no doubt that the mitigation of global warming remains an indispensable element of sustainable development.
I am proud that Ukraine is fully committed to our obligations under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     316     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_URY_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

The increase in armed conflicts, characterized by unprecedented violence, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the expansion in the trade of all types of weapons, the spread of terrorism, cyberattacks, hunger and the devastating effects of climate change make it more than ever necessary for the international community to make a strong commitment to addressing them.


  
     317     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_VAT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

With the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the international community committed itself to effective measures to eradicate the root causes of various evils and indignities that many people in the world are facing today.
With this in mind, responsible compliance with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, as well as the implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the 2030 Agenda, could be a way of focusing all countries and international organizations on working together for peace, setting aside the dangerous game of exchanging threats.
Improving climate conditions and the natural environment is possible only if we accept the need to change the way we perceive the world and thus our way of relating to it.


  
     318     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_VCT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

They are manifestations of climate change and the symptoms of the prescient predictions made by the overwhelming majority of scientists.
Today almost every year is hotter than the preceding one; almost every hurricane season more intense; and almost every storm, drought and flood more destructive than its predecessors.
It is a barefaced insult to the intelligence and experience of the peoples of island States and coastal areas to call climate change a hoax.
At this point, it is almost a cliché to reaffirm that small island developing States are the most vulnerable to climate change while contributing the least to the emissions that cause it.
But that truism is the foundation of our just, urgent and unavoidable demand that the nations that have contributed most to climate change should also do the most to mitigate its effects and assist others in adapting to our dangerous new realities.
Our global community, in the great tradition of the United Nations and in the spirit of the founders of this Organization, came together through hard-fought negotiations to craft the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, an ambitious if imperfect agreement designed to arrest climate change and assist those most affected by it.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines views any attempt to disavow the freshly minted commitments of the Paris Agreement as an act of hostility, and we draw a direct, causal connection between any such abdication and the future death and destruction that island States face as the result of increasingly frequent and intense weather events.
The rise of climate change as an existential threat of our era has not replaced the persistent peril of armed conflict across the globe.
In the areas of climate change, pollution and biodiversity, we have banned Styrofoam products and turtle-hunting, tightened restrictions on internationally permitted indigenous whaling activity and implemented new coastal protection regulations.


  
     319     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_VEN_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

It may be no coincidence that days before and during this seventy-second session of the General Assembly, the effects of the frequently warned of and feared climate change have manifested themselves through the devastation and death caused by consecutive hurricanes of magnitudes never previously seen.
The Prime Ministers of Antigua and Barbuda, Gaston Browne, and of Dominica, Roosevelt Skerrit, made two extraordinary statements to the General Assembly in which they bravely and emotionally expressed the most absolute truths and alerted us to the need for concrete, joint and urgent action to avoid greater havoc being wreaked by those phenomena, which are undeniably caused by climate change.
Today, with greater emphasis than ever before, we recall the motto of environmental and conservationist social movements: let us not change the climate; let us change the system.
It is also a shared and differentiated responsibility that must be borne principally by the countries that pollute the most and thereby contribute to climate change.
In that context, and in the light of the consequences that we have witnessed, we find it extraordinary and hostile that the Government of the United States, the most polluting country, intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which, while not a panacea, is a collective step forward to mitigating the effects of climate change.
How many hurricanes, typhoons, landslides, droughts and cases of subsidence; how many deaths, injured people and devastated countries are needed to ascertain that climate change, as stated by the experts of our very own United Nations, is a threat to the entire planet and that it is everyone’s responsibility to reverse it?


  
     320     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_VNM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Political instability and the risk of conflicts, disasters and climate change threaten the sustainable development of all nations.
The impact of climate change is ever more real and far beyond what has been predicted.
It cannot be decent if it is still threatened by climate change and disasters.
We have begun to implement our national plan of action for implementing the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     321     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_VUT_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a small island State exposed to the rising sea level that will overwhelm its islands and force its people to seek refuge, I would like to appeal to the international community to mobilize its efforts and to begin the debate on the establishment of an international legal framework that will truly solve the problem of climate-change refugees from small island States.
Our understanding of the science of climate change has deepened over the past few years, and its devastating impact knows no borders.
The terrible earthquake in Mexico, Hurricane Maria and Hurricane Irma in the Caribbean, Hurricane Harvey in Texas and tropical storm Pam, which devastated Vanuatu in 2015, are brutal warnings from Mother Nature that the climate is changing faster than our efforts to counter that change.
By collectively reducing the rate at which we emit greenhouse gases, we can make a major difference.
We can limit the average rise in temperature to less than 1.5°C, change the chemistry of the oceans, manage sea- level rise and prevent disasters for generations to come.
We therefore urge the United States, as part of the one world we have, to reverse its decision and enforce the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
My country is deeply concerned about climate change and the Paris Agreement, and we are committed to reversing the decline in the health of our oceans.
We work with our development partners to enhance the resilience and adaptability of our peoples to climate change and natural disasters.


  
     322     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_WSM_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is an existential threat.
Like other global challenges, climate change transcends borders without leaving a trace.
Climate change is a perpetual priority issue for my country and our Pacific region.
The adoption of the Pacific regional road map for implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in Asia and the Pacific complements Samoa’s road map based on an integrated approach involving the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) Accelerated Modalities of Action, known as the Samoa Pathway, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Framework for Pacific Regionalism, which are aligned with our national development strategy.
First, climate change remains a priority challenge for the Pacific region because of its existential nature and its security implications.
Climate change is already happening; it cannot be washed away by the rising tides.
Its impact threatens the continued existence and viability as sovereign States of some of our low-lying atolls.
Even countries that have been in self-denial with regard to the phenomenon of climate change, must surely now accept the weight of scientific evidence.
The implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is of high priority and requires collective action to address this existential threat.
We are confident that Fiji’s presidency of the twenty- third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will focus the spotlight on challenges and the need for genuine partnerships to help us deliver on our nationally determined contributions as part of the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
The Pacific has also endorsed its Framework for Resilience Development in the Pacific: An Integrated Approach to Address Climate Change and Disaster Risk Management and its institutional arrangements to support the elaboration and implementation of the Paris Agreement.
The impacts of climate change, illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and overfishing are threatening the sustainability of this crucial resource of our region.
We look forward to the Secretary-General’s reform and how the Forum can engage to ensure its priorities in terms of its SDG road map and the implementation of the Samoa Pathway, the Paris Agreement and other regional needs are considered in the reform.
They agreed to build on the Biketawa Declaration and other Forum security-related declarations to expand the concept of security, including human security, humanitarian assistance, prioritizing environmental security and regional cooperation in building resilience to disasters and climate change.


  
     323     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ZAF_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We take this opportunity to express our empathy and solidarity with all the victims of the devastating hurricanes, monsoons, floods and droughts as a result of climate change.
Those phenomena are proof that climate change is real and that, if we do not act now, future generations will suffer untold consequences.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a milestone in the history of efforts to address climate change and all its consequences.
We should resist all efforts to unravel and undermine the Paris Agreement.


  
     324     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ZMB_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is a need, therefore, to develop innovative approaches and responses to the challenges, which include terrorism, climate change, nuclear weapons and HIV/AIDS, among many others.
This year’s session is taking place against a backdrop of the adverse effects of climate change, which have spared no one nation, developed or underdeveloped.
Our efforts to raise the standard of living for the world’s poor people in order to meet the Sustainable Development Goals are being frustrated by the effects of climate change.
We have witnessed the devastating effects of climate change on our environment.
As the twenty-third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change draws near, Zambia is expectant that the Conference will, among other things, establish mechanisms for the implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change.
Furthermore, we call on all stakeholders to ensure that the Green Climate Fund is adequately funded in order to help deliver the necessary interventions globally.
As a developing country, Zambia needs assistance to enhance its capacity in key adaptive areas, such as scientific research, early warning and rapid response in order to address the adverse effects of climate change.
Accordingly, Zambia also calls for the transfer of appropriate technologies to help cope with the negative impact of climate change.
As a member State, we note the role of the Commonwealth of Nations in various subjects such as gender and youth matters, climate change, the promotion of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, good governance and socioeconomic development.


  
     325     
   
FILE: UNGA72_2017_ZWE_72_2017_CLIMATE.txt
  

We cannot halt or reverse the continued destruction of our natural habitat or the rise in global atmospheric temperature without a change in contemporary production and consumption patterns.
Climate change is a present reality and so are its effects and impacts.
Climate change is global.
We cannot remain silent when a major world economic Power, or any other State for that matter, decides to abandon the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, as Mr. Trump’s great United States has done.
Climate change is a reality.
It is vital that we all play our part, in keeping with the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in order to halt the inexorable march towards the destruction of that on which our own existence depends.


  
     326     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_AFG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The record of accomplishments by this institution over the past 73  years  demonstrates  that,  wherever it might be and whoever it might impact, we cannot escape the ripple effect of, or de-link ourselves from, the global, national, communal and human connections that bind  us, whether  in relation  to  the environment,
 
the climate, international finance or even the cyber and technology arenas.
Whether we are addressing hunger, acute poverty, climate change, overpopulation, terrorism, conflict, displacement, inequality or organized crime, we all share and own bits and pieces of  the problem in the same way that we collectively benefit or learn from the solutions.


  
     327     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_AGO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am referring to the hunger and poverty that affect millions of citizens around the world, global warming and its consequences, mass migration and especially illegal migration, trafficking in drugs, in human organs, and in children and women for forced prostitution, religious intolerance and extremism, terrorism, inter-ethnic armed conflicts, war among nations or even the uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons.


  
     328     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ALB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Finally, I would like to address the issue of climate change, which affects every country and continent.
The historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change of 2015, which is based on the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, provides a legally binding international commitment to engaging with concrete action.
Albania has adopted corresponding strategies and action plans and is taking the necessary measures to protect the  environment and reduce gas emissions.
It is quite clear that the consequences of climate change are moving faster than we are.
We must prevent climate change in order to ensure the existence of the planet and save future generations.


  
     329     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_AND_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

They are water and sanitation; clean, accessible energy; sustainable cities; responsible consumption and production; the protection of life on Earth and the fight against climate change.
Andorra has also emphasized two more goals, measures to combat climate change and high-quality education, because they are two things with which Andorran society fully identifies.
We therefore champion the validity of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which many countries signed here in New York in April 2016, and we insist that the international community must comply with the agreements and commitments made in Paris in December 2015.
Andorra is working to fulfil the commitments of the Paris Agreement and strongly encourages the rest of the international community to do the same.


  
     330     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ARG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We maintain our firm commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which we established as pillars of our Government’s policy on the eradication of poverty, combating climate change and achieving gender equality.


  
     331     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ATG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

I recognize that today all nations  of  the  world are interdependent in the effort to stop the spread of disease, curb the effects of climate change, make our peoples safe from terrorists and organized crime, share knowledge and technology and have access to one another’s markets to trade in goods and services, thereby improving the lives of all people.
In the context of justice, the refusal by some countries, particularly those that are the worst contributors to greenhouse-gas emissions,  to  admit to the harmful effects of climate change and to take remedial action is an act of injustice.
Small countries such as Antigua and Barbuda contribute the least to harmful carbon emissions — less than 0.01 per cent.
Those are the realities of climate change.
What the destruction of the Carolinas this year and the ruin of Caribbean countries last year served to emphasize to us is that borders may separate nations but they do not insulate them from the shared dangers of climate change.
That is why we continue to urge for a global  policy dialogue that  integrates  the  environment  with development and that accepts the fundamental understanding that every country — with no exceptions — must play a meaningful role, within its means, to stop the persistent deterioration of our lives caused by climate change.
What the world needs is  a  recommitment to  the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, including a commitment to the replenishment of the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund.


  
     332     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_AUS_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

With the theme of “Building a strong Pacific: our islands, our people, our will”, the member States, associate members, observers and dialogue partners of the Pacific Islands Forum continued the long tradition of amity, consultation, partnership and policy development on diverse matters such as climate change, economic reform, transport and trade.
Australia is committed to working with States members of the Pacific Islands Forum and United Nations resident coordinators to strengthen resilience to climate change and natural disasters in the Pacific.
Australia recognizes that Pacific island countries are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change and disaster, and that that problem is a leading priority for the region.
The Pacific Islands Forum Boe Declaration, released last month at the meeting by member States, takes a contemporary view of security, inclusive of human and environmental security, and emphasizes the importance of regional cooperation and collaboration in building resilience to disasters and climate change.


  
     333     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_AUT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, I cannot conclude without endorsing Secretary-General Guterres’ foremost concern, namely, climate change.
The global energy mix continues to be dominated by fossil fuels, in particular coal.


  
     334     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BDI_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We cannot ignore that climate change is an existential threat to the economic, social and sustainable development of Africa and beyond.
Each State member of the Organization must urgently respect its freely made commitments within the framework of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In the same vein, developed countries must honour their commitments to finance the adaptation of Southern economies to the effects of global warming.


  
     335     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BEL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In  just a few months, the nuclear agreement with Iran,  as well as trade agreements and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, have all been cast aside by one of the signatory parties.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development sets out the path for a better and fairer world, and everything is there — poverty eradication, access to health and education, gender equality and the fight against global warming.
Climate change is not constrained by borders.
The stubbornness of some in denying the reality of climate change is of the same order as the stubbornness of those who in the past denied that the Earth was round.
The harmful effects of climate change are going to cause or aggravate conflicts.
The Paris Agreement on  Climate  Change  must be implemented.
Development, the fight against terrorism, climate change, are all problems that no country, regardless of its economic or political power, will be able to overcome by itself.


  
     336     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BFA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In order to consolidate peace, we must address the root causes of conflict, such as poverty, exclusion, discrimination — and, indeed, the effects of climate change.
The purposes and principles of  the  Charter  of the United Nations are aimed at achieving a world of peace, justice, solidarity and social well-being for all, on a planet that is not threatened by climate change.


  
     337     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BGD_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Bangladesh is one of the 10 most climate-vulnerable countries in the world.
Its topography, coupled  with its high population density, has made the country particularly vulnerable to climate-change risks.
Bangladesh  remains  committed  to  implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We are spending over 1 per cent of our gross domestic product on addressing climate-change impacts.
We are also promoting climate-resilient agriculture.
We have integrated our development programmes and our efforts to build capacity to combat climate change into a mega-project entitled Bangladesh Delta Plan 2100.
It was developed bearing in mind the local geomorphology and global climate-change impact.


  
     338     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BGR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The main global challenges, such as conflict resolution and peacekeeping, strengthening global security and stability, countering climate change, terrorism and ever-deepening inequality, cannot be addressed by one country alone.


  
     339     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BHS_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

As nations, we must intensify our deliberations and commitments to addressing climate change.
Climate change is a clear and present danger to us all, but in particular to low-lying coastal nations like the Bahamas.
We see that in the rising sea levels, the loss of coral reefs and the increased volume of acid in our oceans, as well as the more severe and  frequent hurricanes and typhoons.
As such, I fully support the Secretary-General’s plan to call a climate summit next September to mobilize action and financial support.
It is not our island nations that are primarily responsible for the climate change  that has resulted  in the recent scourges of hurricanes and other natural disasters that ravage our islands.


  
     340     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BIH_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Whether it be conflict prevention or resolution, security, development, climate change, nuclear proliferation, terrorism, migration or human rights,
 
none of these problems can be successfully addressed or resolved by one, three or five  countries  alone.
Concerted efforts and the alliance of all nations are necessary to contain the risks of nuclear confrontation and successfully address global issues such as gender equality, climate change or the prosecution of war criminals at the international level.


  
     341     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BLR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We recently adopted landmark documents, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
They are the most vulnerable to such factors as global economic fluctuations, the consequences of regional conflicts, natural and human-caused catastrophes, climate upheavals and epidemics — all of which threaten social and economic stability and exacerbate inequality at both the regional and the global levels.


  
     342     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BLZ_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our Government has made  building  resilience  an integral part of its development planning and is implementing a national climate resilience investment plan to ensure that the impact of climate change is integrated into national investment planning across all sectors and ministries.
Had we done so we would not have achieved a landmark human rights declaration, a transformative development agenda or a constitution for the oceans and seas, and we certainly would not have a framework agreement for collective action on climate change.
Similarly, we can take a final decision  in Poland to give full effect to the Paris Agreement and mobilize momentum for the level of ambition and the magnitude of support needed to avoid irreversible adverse effects of climate change.
Belize is ready to commit to raising our ambition and urges others to join us in 2020 to set the world on the right path towards achieving the Paris Agreement goals.


  
     343     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BOL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The first is climate change.
Every year is warmer than the one before.
While we consider global efforts such as the Paris Agreement important, if we do not tackle the underlying structural causes of climate change, we will not be able to stop it, all the more so when the biggest polluter in the history of humankind, the United States,
 
turns its back on science, multilateralism and thereby on humankind.
Climate change is an inseparable consequence of capitalism, overproduction and patterns of consumption.


  
     344     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BRA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

I note that in recent years alone, we adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement.
We are fully committed to the shift towards a low-carbon international economy.


  
     345     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BRB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

As Heads of Government, we have asked the international community to address those issues, both in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and as we come to twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, against the background of climate change consisting of a warming of as much as 2°C.
That graph spoke to the fate of the world with respect to the tipping points for a warming of 3° Celsius and under, for 3° to 5°, and for over 5°.
How many more speeches must we listen to before we realize that agreements are necessary to fund the effort
to address climate change, as well as agreements to cap our emissions.
We cannot accept a change of 2°C, because a change of 2° means a rising sea level of 1.5 to 2 metres for our islands.
Matters pertaining to migration and security will become ever more pressing in this world if we do not put a stop our growing emissions.
There are those who  would want me  to speak also about the graduation of middle-income countries to a status where we have lost access to finance, which, ironically, affects our ability to adapt our environments, economies and societies to confront climate change and its vagaries.
As we learned when we went to San Francisco two weeks ago for the Global Climate Action Summit, time is truly running out on us.
We will try to become a fossil-fuel-free country by 2030.
But what does that mean against the backdrop of a world that is not prepared to put the funding in place to be able to stop the worst aspects of climate change?
What does that mean to people who have to rely on a Green Climate Fund because their per capita income or their capacity to provide for their people is simply not there?
We do not have the ability to withstand climate shock, or the capacity to come to grips with the pervasive nature of chronic NCDs.
That may be tolerable for certain things, but it cannot be acceptable for the issue of climate change.
We in the Caribbean and in the Pacific need the world to look again at a commitment to a change of no more than 1.5° C, because 2° would be calamitous.


  
     346     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BRN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change poses a clear and serious threat to humankind,
 
and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change remains our greatest hope in addressing that global challenge together.


  
     347     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_BTN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change resulting from global warming and human activity is a serious threat not only to humankind, but also to sustainable development.
The impacts  of climate change affect poorer countries and people disproportionately, as they are not able to adapt or  deal with its impacts.
Since mitigating climate change means reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, which are caused by the consumption of energy in all economic and household activities, it affects everyone and  is tied to economic and energy-security issues.
The ever- increasing environmental pressures of climate change, biodiversity loss, water scarcity, soil degradation, air and water pollution, among others, have far-reaching economic and social  consequences  that  contribute to poverty and growing social inequalities.
How many more experts do we need to convince us that natural disasters are aggravated by climate change?
Climate change also threatens  to push 100 million people into extreme poverty by 2030.
Climate-change refugees on a large scale will certainly become a reality.
We must therefore act now and ensure at all costs that international support to tackle climate change, mobilized through the landmark
 
Paris Agreement, does not waver.
We are fortunate that past investments in environmental conservation are reaping climate dividends.
Our 72.6 per cent forest cover not only serves as a carbon sink for greenhouse-gas emissions, it also provides valuable ecosystem services such as clean water for drinking, agriculture and hydropower generation.
Bhutan remains committed to upholding its 2009 commitment to remaining carbon-neutral and reaffirms its pledge to fulfil its commitments to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     348     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CAF_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The aim of the current session is to promote reflection on how our common Organization should
address the new challenges facing the world and our societies today, such as terrorism, violent extremism, climate change, migration and poverty.
On an equally important note, our planet continues to suffer the effects of natural phenomena such as earthquakes, rainfall, drought, the rapid advance of the desert and global warming.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to encourage all States that are signatories to the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to join efforts to preserve our shared environment and to ensure sustainable development for our planet.


  
     349     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CAN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The magnitude of the contemporary challenges that the world is confronting, from climate change to terrorism, from economic inequality to irregular migration, from protracted crises to humanitarian emergencies, demands action.
As our Secretary-General says, climate change is the defining issue of our time.
A significant component of the response to climate change requires new, greener and more resilient infrastructure.
We also felt very  strongly  that  the  G-7  needed to tackle the issue of climate resilience and disaster recovery.
Those projects fuel long- term economic  growth  and support  the  transition to a low-carbon economy, while making progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development  Goals and improving the representation of women and marginalized groups in sustainable infrastructure.
If elected, we will work with others to tackle climate change and violent extremism, and to promote economic security and the empowerment of women and girls.


  
     350     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CHE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

By that I mean globalization, inequality, war and internal conflict, as well as extremism, migration flows and climate change, and even health crises and the digital revolution.
Nonetheless, we are all aware that there is still work to be done to combat global warming and the negative environmental impacts of economic development.


  
     351     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CHL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, we must also think about creating a culture and an international community that are built on the principles and values of freedom, human dignity, full respect for human rights, gender equality and the fight against climate change and other new emerging threats, such as those related to cyberspace.
Today our planet faces major threats and challenges, such as a deteriorating environment, global warming, growing desertification, the destruction of the ozone layer, the depletion of natural resources, the loss of biodiversity, as well as air, water and soil pollution and deforestation, to name just a few.
Planet Earth has existed for more than 4 billion years and has survived all kinds  of catastrophes — flooding, glaciation, warming and earthquakes.
We know that the environment is changing and that global warming is occurring faster than our efforts to understand, halt and stop it.
The threat of climate change and the way we address it will define this and future centuries and requires a vast multilateral effort.
Chile, as a natural observatory, is greatly exposed to the risks and threats of climate change  and  global  warming.
In fact, seven of the nine major vulnerability factors listed in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change apply to Chile — low-lying coastal areas, arid and semi-arid areas, large forested areas, areas prone to natural disasters, areas prone to drought and desertification, urban areas with atmospheric pollution problems, and mountainous ecosystems.
That compels us to seek urgent and effective solutions in order to adapt to and address the threat of global warming.
In addition, the energy path that we are following towards a cleaner, safer, more cost-effective and more diversified energy matrix that strongly promotes decarbonization has enabled us to make significant
headway in developing clean, renewable energy, particularly volcanic energy — Chile has 25 per cent of the world’s active volcanoes — as well as wind and solar energy, since Chile is home to a desert with the highest solar radiation levels in the world.
We are also making great advances in removing fossil fuels from our transport system and moving towards electromobility, with a more definitive solution that is more compatible with those objectives.
Moreover, we are addressing the threat to our planet posed by plastic.
That is the aim of the framework law on climate change that we are implementing in Chile and that by 2030 will enable us to reduce our greenhouse-gas emissions by 30 per cent compared to the base year.
To do it, we must incorporate the climate-change perspective into all public policy and private-sector commitments.
We are doing just that by incorporating environmental and climate-change policies into our national investment system and our evaluation systems for public  expenditure  and  environmental  impact.
Without doubt, those developments have reduced our carbon emissions and will continue to significantly reduce them while strengthening our economy.
We are the first generation  to feel the impact of climate change and also the last generation that can do something about it.
Together with the formidable threats that we are confronted with, such as terrorism, global warming and mass migration, we also have magnificent opportunities that are generated by the freedom, imagination and unlimited creativity of the free men and women of this world.


  
     352     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CHN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

To meet the challenges of climate change, it is crucial to achieve sustainable development.
China hopes to see the conclusion of the negotiations on the implementation guidelines of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, scheduled for the end of this year, with a view to boosting joint efforts for global ecological conservation.


  
     353     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CIV_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, we must agree that the fight against global warming will be successful only if we fully accept that global warming is a threat to world peace and international security.


  
     354     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CMR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Persistent hotbeds of tension, in particular in Africa and the Near and Middle East, as well as the emergence of new issues such as terrorism, violent extremism, migration, natural disasters and climate change, to name but a few, threaten the foundations of our civilization and bring to the forefront the issue of the ability of the United Nations to provide adequate responses to contemporary problems.
On the environmental front, my country, which was among the first States to ratify the Paris Agreement, remains firmly committed to preserving biodiversity.


  
     355     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_COG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

A few days ago, from this very rostrum, the Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. António Guterres, called on the leaders of the world to delay  no longer in protecting our planet from the disastrous consequences of climate change.
From this rostrum and on behalf of my President,  I solemnly call on the conscience of  the  world  and  all in this Assembly to join in a sacred union, under the leadership of the United Nations, to give strength and vigour to the  valuable  instruments that  we  put in place following the Paris Agreement on Climate Change — the Congo Basin  Climate  Commission and the Blue Fund for the Congo Basin, which are designed to improve the preservation of the Congo basin forest, the world’s second-largest lung, whose immense territory and exuberance are matched only by those of the Amazon.


  
     356     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_COL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Sustainable Development Goals support our agenda for a Colombia where science and technology are driven by connectivity, access to capital, the development of the innovative economy and the promotion of research — a Colombia committed to protecting biodiversity, promoting renewable energy, reducing the individual carbon footprint and establishing a citizenship strengthened by steadfast ethics.
We must continue to move forward in a world where partnerships make it possible to mitigate the effects of climate change, strengthen fair trade, tackle corruption and transnational crime, create employment opportunities, put an end to discrimination and promote the idea of producing while conserving and conserving while producing.


  
     357     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_COM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In order to ensure a safer world, we must also pay close attention to the ever-growing issue of climate change, particularly in small island developing States, of which my country, the Union of the Comoros, is one.
While exacerbating the destruction of ecosystems and biodiversity, climate change is also likely to increase poverty and various diseases and lead to an upsurge in climate-related migration, thereby compromising our future and that of future generations.


  
     358     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CPV_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am referring, for example, to terrorism, which is spreading in many countries; the migration crisis, particularly on the African continent,
 
from where we get news, virtually every day, of young people, children and women who have abandoned their homes out of desperation and ventured into the world in search of a better life only to face subhuman conditions; the impact of climate change on human security; conflicts and other threats to peace coming to us from all quarters of the world; and the glaring situation of poverty, which continues to be a reality that puts our global capacity to leave no one behind to the test.
Similarly, as we look to our future, we must also consider the increasingly disastrous impacts that climate change and other natural disasters are having on the world, particularly on small island developing States.
We see this situation in our growing regional asymmetries, which are exacerbated by the lack of territorial continuity that goes with being an island nation, the nefarious effects of drought, desertification and other climate changes, as well as weak production capacity, unemployment of young people, social and gender inequalities, the excessive burden of external debt on the budget, and the difficulties in internally connecting our country by air and sea, which hampers the creation of a competitive and coherent market, which is essential for developing tourism.


  
     359     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CRI_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are currently working on a decarbonization plan that is innovative, decisive and committed, with  a long-term vision and a set of immediate actions that require transformational efforts in our society.
The plan identifies a series of technological transformations, such as efficient and renewable public transport, a fleet of zero-emission light vehicles, integrated waste management and low-emission waste disposal, highly efficient agri-food systems that generate low-carbon foodstuffs, a model of livestock development that is resilient and eco-competitive based on productive efficiency and an increase in forest cover and ecosystem services rooted in nature-based solutions.
The decarbonization of our society is the greatest task of our generation.
Costa Rica aspires to become a laboratory in the process of the extensive decarbonization of the world economy.
Just as we once abolished our army, we are now going to abolish our dependence on fossil
 
fuels.


  
     360     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CUB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The truth is that while funding shortfalls are cited as justification for failing to attain the goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development or address the increasing impacts of climate change, $1.74 trillion was wasted on military expenditure in 2017 — the highest figure since the end of the Cold War.
Climate change is another unavoidable reality and a question of survival for the human race, especially for small island developing States.
Scientific evidence shows that the average temperature has increased by 1.1°C compared to pre-industrial levels, and that nine out of 10 people living in urban areas breathe polluted air.
However, the United States, one of the major polluters, both historically and today, refuses to join the international community in implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     361     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CYP_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

While we have adopted
 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to address that global challenge, specific interests hinder both the design and the implementation of domestic policies that could deliver on our pledge and commitments.
In parallel,  we  must  take  further action to address States’ vulnerability to climate change, particularly small island States, just as we  need to   put more emphasis on implementing the Sustainable Development Goals and accelerate efforts to that end.


  
     362     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_CZE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We face many challenges in areas such as the dignity of individuals, global prosperity, and sustainable development, including gender inequality, youth unemployment, global health threats, climate change, violent extremism, terrorism, forced displacement and uncontrolled migration.
For effective conflict prevention, we should adopt a comprehensive approach to peace and security that treats climate change as a security problem while also advancing sustainable development and promoting human rights.


  
     363     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_DEU_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The United Nations of the twenty- first century must tackle the root causes of conflict, including climate change.
Germany and the European Union stand by the Paris Agreement.
Moreover, we want to ensure that the Security Council makes the devastating effects that climate change can have on the security and stability of entire countries and regions an even greater priority.


  
     364     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_DMA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

He called for the world to wake up and take note that the war of climate change had come to our shores.
Among and around us are many who continue to deny the reality of climate change.
We have not, as a global community, agreed on a plan for the implementation of the commitments made at the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change in Paris.
Nor have we mobilized the resources to capitalize the $100 billion dollars per year pledged to assist the most vulnerable and to adapt to and mitigate the harmful effects of climate change.
While we have been failing to live up to those commitments, Arctic ice shelves have continued to melt at an alarming rate, the oceans continue to get warmer, hurricanes and storms continue to develop and threaten our countries, and droughts are becoming more severe and flooding more pronounced.
Climate change is therefore the global responsibility of our time.
Yes, I agree that poverty, inequality and violence are shared responsibilities too, but their modern-day manifestations are wrapped up in climate change.
Climate change arises from activities that support and reflect inequalities, and it is always the poor who suffer the most.
Much violence flows directly from the climate change-induced scarcity of things like water and productive lands.
Climate change is the main symptom of our world’s broken economy, society and humanity.
We have done that too many times before, and have nevertheless watched climate change continue its ravages.
While we pontificate and engage in a perpetual debate, climate change will march on, laying waste  to  our  forests and fields, whipping up the fury of angry winds and punishing rains and wrecking lives and  livelihoods.
It is no secret that some countries’ lack of motivation to take the necessary action is rooted in the economic truth that those who gain most from the activities that create climate change remain the most removed from its dire consequences.
Since climate change is the result of an economic calculus that will keep pushing global destruction further and further along, it must be
 
accepted as the responsibility of our time, one we must put our collective efforts behind to arrest.
As climate change warms the oceans and feeds the rainstorms, the risk of future loss and damage increases.
Yet the price of the production and consumption  of  goods that contribute to climate change has not been set to compensate us for our losses and damages resulting from that change.
Climate change is not a freak of nature.
Let us consider the insurance model championed by many industrialized countries and international agencies as the solution to climate change.
Island States on the front line are being asked to take out additional insurance against the losses and damage that are the direct results of a change in climate caused by others.
If our principal response to man-made climate change is to make it easier for the victims to foot the bill, then the march of climate change will press on unimpeded.
The game-changer would be to establish a different kind of insurance that pays out quickly to the victims of climate disasters, especially for vulnerable and at-
risk countries like ours.
Fairness requires that that insurance mechanism must be funded by those that have contributed most to climate change.
Today I want to propose that the United Nations oversee a climate loss-and-damage insurance fund, whereby premiums are paid by those who have contributed  most and continue to contribute to climate change,  and whereby payouts go quickly to those who suffer the direct consequences of climate disasters, once they have been independently declared as such.
Ending the inequality that separates those who gain and those who lose would remove the fuel lines  of climate change.
That is what the international community must do, if it is serious about halting climate change.
In the past 12 months, while contending with the sheer hard task of relief and early recovery efforts, housing the vulnerable and restoring essential services, Dominica has instituted a plan to make it the first climate-resilient nation in the world.
We have drafted legislation to establish the Climate Resilience Execution Agency of Dominica, which will deliver the projects that will achieve that goal.
By the grace of God, therefore, and with the continued support of our partners in the global community, we will become the first climate-resilient nation in the world.
We encourage other vulnerable small island States to embark on building resilience to climate change as well.
The creation of a special international climate-change resilience facility to provide technical and financial resources should be given the most urgent attention possible.
Official development assistance must be re-engineered to take into account the vulnerability of small island States and the imperative of building resilience to climate change.
As we battle the effects of  climate change,  we  are supremely conscious that there are many other challenges confronting our region and the wider world.
Two emerging global problems brought on by climate change are those of climate-induced migration and disaster refugees.
That further underscores the fact that the emerging problems  brought  on  by the effects of climate change require urgent global attention.
Dominica calls on the United Nations to begin the discourse on both climate migration and disaster refugees while it is still early.
Let history record what we did, not what we said, and the efforts we made to end the march of climate change globally and reduce our vulnerabilities locally.


  
     365     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_DNK_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Insufficient action is being taken on global problems such as climate change, poverty, migration, terrorism and violent extremism.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change set out a strong global vision for achieving a more sustainable planet.


  
     366     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_DOM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am referring to climate change and drug trafficking and organized crime.
We only have to open the newspaper or turn on the television to see the effects of climate change wreaking havoc somewhere on the planet.
In the Dominican Republic, we are strongly committed to dealing with the consequences of climate change.
Those measures will not only support our economy, they will enable us to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases by 25 per cent by 2030, a goal that we are very pleased about.
However, the fight against climate change is  a task for all of us, and that is why the next level — the international level — is the broadest and most essential of the three.
Among those actions, I want to once again highlight the urgency of financing and making operational
 
initiatives such as the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, which will make it possible to compensate for the destruction of infrastructure and ecosystems and alleviate the threatening conditions of our residents.
We therefore consider it indisputable that those countries that have most heavily contributed to the gas emissions that are responsible for climate change are also those that should contribute proportionally to the  fund  established  to  mitigate its effects.
As I described earlier, we also consider drug trafficking and organized crime to be a threat to global security and stability of a similar magnitude to that of climate change.
As with climate change, therefore, the fight against drugs must be conducted at all three levels — local, national and international — in order to achieve effective results.
As in the case of climate change, it is the more developed countries with greater consumption capacity that must dedicate more resources, cooperation and political will if they truly wish to fight the problem with any hope of victory.
In combating the effects of drug trafficking and climate change, we will address some of the structural causes of deeper poverty and social inequality.
Climate change, drug trafficking, poverty, social inequality and mass migration are all interrelated problems that we must deal with urgently.


  
     367     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ESP_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are the last generation with the opportunity to slow the consequences of climate change and the first generation with the tools to eradicate poverty on the planet.
However, none of those efforts make any sense unless we tackle the greatest threat of our generation: the impact of climate change.
We must fight that battle at every level, which means not only addressing its most immediate effects  but  also  addressing  the underlying structural
 
causes that exacerbate the changes in our climate that we are witnessing.
This is why we are keenly aware of the need to undertake a controlled decarbonization of our economy.
Yesterday, I announced  that  Spain  would  join the Carbon Neutrality Coalition, deepening our commitment  to implementing  ambitious   long-  term strategies for reducing carbon dioxide and greenhouse-gas emissions.
That will enable us to fully comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
I also wish to share the fact that Spain will participate constructively in the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will take place in Poland this year, and the climate change summit to be convened by the Secretary-General in 2019.
Ultimately, it is necessary for us to be able to move forward and comply with the Paris Agreement — we believe that those meetings offer the occasion to advance and achieve our objectives.


  
     368     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_EST_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is very easy just to talk about a cleaner environment or climate change, but if you really want to get things done, then very often you simply must get up and do it yourself.
The same applies to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In order to tackle the global challenge of climate change that is affecting billions, we must implement the commitments we have collectively undertaken, because the effects of climate change are increasingly being felt all over the world, not only in the developing countries — especially by small island States, where homes, food and even clean drinking
water are greatly at risk and countries are forced to jump through varied and expensive hoops in order to gain access to relief funding — but also in the developed world, where people have lost their loved ones or homes in European forest fires or in hurricanes in America and the Pacific.
Wars and conflicts continue, global warming is speeding up and the piles of litter around us just keep growing.


  
     369     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_EU_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The European Union is fighting intensely to preserve the rules-based
 
international order, which is currently under great strain with regard to trade, security, climate change and human rights.
Education, investment
in development, climate change and free trade will therefore be at the heart of our future relations.
They go hand in hand with the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and other international commitments.
From floods to fires, the impact of climate change becomes more visible every year, and sadly, we now measure the impact by the loss of human life.
Although only slow progress is being made on our main task, which is implementing the Paris Agreement, the European Union remains fully committed to it and has set it as a priority in its relations with our partners.


  
     370     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_FIN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In that regard, I refer to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement and the global compact for migration and the global compact on refugees.
Issues such as sustainability, climate change and migration are not only about development and human rights, but they are also essential questions of peace and security.
Climate change is the prime example of the need for prompt global action.
The  upcoming  report  of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will further underscore the urgency of our response.
So far, the voluntary contributions from the States parties to the Paris Agreement are not enough to keep the global temperature rise well below 2°C.
In the North, we are witnessing how the Arctic region is warming at an alarming pace.
That is  not just a regional problem, as it poses a threat to the entire global climate system.
One important factor in accelerating the melting of sea ice in the Arctic is black carbon emissions.
Reducing black carbon that lands on the white ice would have immediate positive effects  in preventing melting.
A commitment to curbing
those emissions would be a key objective of an Arctic summit, which Finland, as the current Chair of the Arctic Council, is ready to host.
Without mitigation, climate change will also lead to a further increase in migration flows.


  
     371     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_FJI_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have been a willing and energetic presence in peacekeeping efforts around the world, and we are now proudly putting every ounce of energy that we have into the fight to save this planet and its people — all of us — from a catastrophic warming of our climate.
Fiji is coming to the end of its presidency of the twenty-third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-23), part of the United Nations ongoing climate negotiations among the nations of the world, but the struggle to fight global warming and end the degradation of our oceans will continue to be Fiji’s highest priority.
The many disastrous effects of climate change that we are seeing in the South Pacific and around the world are well documented.
The same can be said of the enormous stresses on our oceans arising from acidification, overfishing, warming and plastic refuse.
As the Fijian Prime Minister, I have met thousands of Fijian women, men and children every year who have suffered from the latest wave of climate-related impacts, such as cyclones, flooding, prolonged droughts and steadily rising seas.
They simply will not get us to the goal agreed in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, that of reducing the rate of global warming to well below the 2°C target, let alone the more ambitious target of 1.5°C.
Fiji will press for more action on climate change and ocean health in every forum that it is a part of.
We cannot simply wait for the rest of the world to come around, because the effects of climate change are already bearing down on us.
We are relocating entire villages and communities to escape the rising seas.
However, no Government can combat climate change alone.
That is why, from the beginning of Fiji’s presidency of COP-23, I have sought to build a grand coalition of Governments, the private sector, labour forces, religious groups and civil society to take initiatives and come up with ideas and solutions, both great and small.
I am confident that I speak for all Fijians and Pacific islanders when I say that I tend to lose patience with national leaders who proclaim their deep concern over climate change and then do little or nothing to lead their nations onto a more ambitious path for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions.
The Talanoa Dialogue will reach a crescendo in Katowice, Poland, at COP-24.
We cannot let Katowice fail.
Katowice must not became another Copenhagen.
Fiji will be a net- zero greenhouse-gas-emission country by 2050.
We know that the interaction of ocean ecology and climate change runs deep.
Our oceans are suffering from the stress of human activities, which goes beyond climate change and includes pollution, overfishing and acidification.
I want to draw the world’s serious attention to the need to help developing nations, particularly the most disadvantaged and vulnerable, to overcome climate and oceans stresses.
It has been an honour for Fiji,  and for me personally, to lead the United Nations efforts on climate change this year.
The existential problem of climate
change requires us to work together, the challenge of mobilizing finance for climate resilience requires us to work together, and more complex and more globalized conflicts require us to work together.


  
     372     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_FRA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

First, that is because, in part,  it has failed to regulate itself, and to date no solution commensurate with the task of meeting its economic, financial, environmental and climatic failures has been found.
We also need collective action in the face of the demographic, climate and digital challenges before us, which none of us can face alone.
With regard to climate change, too, there are no free rides or easy solutions either.
We owe a response to the 700 million children who live in the regions most exposed to the consequences of climate change — the victims of floods, droughts, rising sea levels and the depletion of resources.
Women and girls are the first of us to be affected by poverty, conflict and the consequences of global warming.
It is unacceptable that 45 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions are produced by 10 per cent of the planet’s richest inhabitants.
It is unsustainable that 100 million more people will be condemned to extreme poverty by 2030 if we fail  to meet our commitments to fighting global warming.
The proclaimed breakdown of the Paris Climate Change Agreement has been thwarted because we have been able to remain united, despite the decision of the United States to withdraw from it.
So let us speed up, let us together adopt the rules for implementing the Paris Agreement in December at the 24th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Let us implement the protocol against hydrofluorocarbon gases, which could enable us to reduce the average global temperature by one degree by 2050.
Let us no longer sign trade agreements with Powers that do not respect the Paris Agreement.
Let us work harder to involve sovereign wealth funds and financiers in this low-carbon-policy strategy.
We  will work  in the G-7  to ensure
that the commitments made at the 2015 Climate Change Conference are increased, and if one of our members does not want to move forward, we will move forward anyway by seeking new coalitions and new formats, because the G-7’s mission is to remain a united group of countries committed to democracy.


  
     373     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_FSM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

As I said before, New Zealand has spoken eloquently about the fate of the Pacific island countries in the face of the imminent threat of climate change.
The existential threat of climate change is becoming more real with every hurricane, wildfire, heatwave and centimetre of sea-level rise.
In 2009, Micronesia proposed a fast-action strategy using the Montreal Protocol to explicitly cut climate emissions so as to avoid a warming of 1.5°C by the end of the century.
While it may sound like a small figure, it is 50 per cent more than the warming that we are experiencing today.
In order to achieve that goal, we urge all countries that have not yet done so to ratify the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol.
I ask all my friends, leaders of their countries, from the bottom of my heart to accelerate the process to join the Montreal Protocol so that we can begin the implementation of what needs to be done in order to save this planet.
But we can still avoid the worst climate impacts if we recognize the need for speed  and take fast action.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change may have shortcomings, but believe me, it is the best platform for achieving our goal.
We believe that, no matter how difficult or sensitive the issues associated with climate change, we need everyone on board.
While we welcome the recent decision by the International Law Commission to place the topic “Sea- Level Rise in Relation to International Law” on its long- term programme of work, may I strongly recommend that the subject be placed on the Commission’s active programme of work,  given  the  direct  implications of sea-level rise  on  maritime  baselines  and  maritime boundaries.
We find it deeply troubling that the threat posed by climate change to our existence has not received the Security Council’s consideration.


  
     374     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GAB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is increasingly exposed to the harmful effects of climate change.
Climate change is a reality that impacts our daily lives.
Rising temperatures, melting glaciers and polar ice caps and an increase in the number and magnitude of natural disasters are all undeniable signs of climate change.
In response to those facts, the President of the Gabonese Republic, in his capacity as coordinator of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change, has shown that he clearly understands the urgent need to act quickly, not only for Gabon but also for Africa.
It is in that context, that, in December  2017, Gabon provided substantial financial support to efforts to operationalize the Initiative for the Adaptation
of African Agriculture (AAA), launched  in  2015  with the objective of helping African countries to plan, programme and implement climate-adaptation measures.
In that regard, we reiterate our call to bilateral and multilateral partners, including the private sector, to support Africa’s efforts to finance measures aimed at increasing the levels of adaptation and resilience to the effects of climate change.


  
     375     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GBR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is only global cooperation that can harness legitimate self- interest towards common goals, producing agreements on global challenges, such as climate change and proliferation, and increasing inclusive economic growth.
In the United Kingdom we are driving investment in industries of the  future to create new jobs, from low-carbon technologies to artificial intelligence.


  
     376     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GEO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

It includes conflicts, terrorism, migration and forced displacement, climate change, poverty and grave human rights violations.


  
     377     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GIN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The plan focuses on six key areas: cross-border cooperation, prevention, peacekeeping, inclusive growth, climate and renewable energy.
The compact is fundamentally aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants, while providing an important monitoring mechanism.


  
     378     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GMB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let us therefore restore faith in our rules- based international order, so as to  remain  relevant and collectively make progress on our global agenda, ranging from tackling the menaces of climate change and terrorism to addressing disarmament, trade, development and other issues of concern to humankind.


  
     379     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GNB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change has caused an increasing number of severe droughts and floods in many parts of the world.
Many island countries face the risk of disappearing, owing to rising sea levels.
Above all, we must rigorously meet the commitments stipulated in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     380     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GRC_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

It means supporting the Secretary- General’s vision for United  Nations  reform, as  well as the 2030 Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, the coming global compact on migration, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Iran nuclear deal, despite all of its weaknesses.


  
     381     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GRD_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those  global  changes are   magnified,   especially for developing States, in the face of challenging phenomena such as climate change, natural disasters and non-communicable diseases.
Such weather systems are yet another reminder of the vulnerability of our region and the realities of climate change, capable of eviscerating entire industries in a matter of hours.
The global climate-change challenge offers us an opportunity not only to highlight our vulnerability but also  to  focus on the distinct advantages of being small States.
The Caribbean and other small island developing States can serve as proving grounds for the nationwide implementation of climate-related technologies and advances.
Being climate-smart goes beyond policies.
We aim to be resilient, and with our region’s tremendous potential in hydroelectricity and geothermal energy, we could also be  climate-smart.
In understanding the need to rethink our adaptation  to climate change, the Government of Grenada has established a new, overarching Ministry of Climate Resilience, the Environment, Forestry, Fisheries, Disaster Management and Information.
Its  mandate  is to work speedily to ensure that engrained in every aspect of our country’s development is the question of addressing climate change and climate resilience.
The road to climate-smart sustainability is long and arduous, but it is not insurmountable, and we must ensure that we are strategic on that journey.
In building climate-smart and sustainable societies, we cannot overlook the inherent need to improve the health of our citizens and the conditions needed to foster good health.
Imagine what we could achieve instead if we put our brilliant scientists to work on climate change and building climate-smart resilient and sustainable societies.


  
     382     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GTM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Turning to other subjects, we should point out Guatemala is a country located in a vulnerable tropical zone that is suffering increasingly seriously from the effects of climate change.


  
     383     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_GUY_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Guyana is unalterably committed to the principles of sustainable development and to working with the international community and all partners to help combat the effects of climate change, including rising sea levels, to which we are particularly vulnerable as  a low-lying coastal State.


  
     384     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_HND_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have been one of the countries most impacted by extreme weather events over the past 20 years, ranking first in the Germanwatch Global Climate Risk Index.
Despite being one of the world’s most vulnerable countries, Honduran society as a whole has been working to combat the effects of climate change.


  
     385     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_HRV_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

It takes great tragedies caused by disasters, global crises, wars or climate change to remind us of what we all stand to lose.
By adopting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, along with the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, we have sent a powerful message that there is hope for a brighter future.
Runaway climate change is one of  the  most  serious  threats that we are regularly witnessing — from heatwaves and forest fires, no longer limited  to  California  or the Mediterranean but now also in places such as Scandinavia, to historic typhoons in Japan or the Philippines and to the melting of the ice sheets on the planet’s poles.
No country can shield itself from the negative effects of climate change, and Croatia is no exception.
All over the world, including Croatia, we are seeing rises in sea temperatures and unprecedented and irreversible changes in ecosystems.
We may soon be exposed to the danger of rising sea levels, which is already an existential issue for many small islands around the world.
That is why climate action is not an abstract issue.
One of the most important climate-action and sustainable-development issues for Croatia is reversing the demographic trends on our islands, which are turning into places where schools have no children and churches see more funerals than baptisms and weddings.
In that regard, particular attention should be given to the Ocean Cleanup project, which is designing and developing the first feasible method to rid the world’s oceans of plastic.
My  country is already actively preparing for the fulfilment of its obligations under the Paris Agreement.


  
     386     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_HTI_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Intensifying the fight against global warming, which is one of the most serious threats to humankind, must also be one of the international community’s urgent priorities.
The 2016 Paris Agreement on Climate Change was a milestone in this regard.
We are well aware that climate-change adaptation and mitigation regimes and precautionary measures to alleviate damage are extremely costly.
Mobilizing new resources for climate change is a top priority.
We should point out that the world’s most vulnerable countries, especially small island States, and above all those in the Caribbean, including the Republic of Haiti, emit few greenhouse  gases,  and yet suffer most of the damage caused by increasingly frequent and violent hurricanes.
The promises made at last year’s One Planet Summit in Paris to enable those countries to adapt their environments and mitigate the ravaging effects of climate change must be kept.


  
     387     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_IDN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change are but two obvious examples.
As the largest archipelagic country in the world, we are fully aware of the adverse impact of climate change, as the countries that have to face this issue most acutely have been the small island developing States.


  
     388     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_IND_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The greatest challenges of our era are the existential threats of climate change and terrorism.
Underdeveloped and developing nations are the most affected victims of climate change.
If we wish to save the world from the adverse effects of climate change, the developed nations must lift up the deprived with financial and technical resources.
The principle
 
of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities was reiterated in the 2015 Paris Agreement.
If that goal is achieved, we will be witness to a major revolution in the energy sector, which will represent a major milestone in combating all phenomena related to climate change.


  
     389     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_IRL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In peacekeeping, disarmament, sustainable development, climate-change issues, nutrition, human rights and humanitarian assistance, we  have  striven to match our words with actions, along with increased funding and support for multilateral  structures.
The growing impact of climate change, which many speakers before me have mentioned, on international peace and security concerns adds weight to that call.
The need for collective action to address climate change has been a common theme this week and is more evident by the month.
The denial of climate change needs to end, and collective action on climate adaptation, as well as mitigation, needs to intensify.
Today many more island nations face challenges not of their own making as a result of climate change, pollution and rising sea levels.


  
     390     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ISL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Another goal of ours is to make sure that future generations will thank us — all of us —for having worked hard to save them from the worst consequences of climate change.
Given its location in the Arctic, Iceland sits in the front row as a witness to disappearing ice caps and environmental change.
There is no doubt in my mind that climate change is fast becoming the single most serious challenge to global peace, security and development.
While technology will be a big part of the solution — with electric cars, and with renewable energy fuelling our economies — we will also  need  to nurture our soil and restore our land as key  parts of our efforts aimed at fighting climate change.
This perspective is reflected in the ambitious new climate strategy of the Government of Iceland, which has been put in place to meet our Paris Agreement targets for 2030 and to make Iceland carbon-neutral by 2040.
Our plan aims to phase out fossil fuels in transport and increase afforestation and the restoration of wetlands.
High-income countries must do their share to reduce emissions and help low-income countries adapt to the effects of climate change.
In the end, our reaction to climate change has more to do with self-preservation than self-sacrifice.
Sustainable development, with particular emphasis on the oceans, climate and energy, and social and economic development will be among the guiding principles of Iceland’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council from 2019 to 2021.
We will work to advance the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, and, lastly, focus on the connection between climate change and human rights.


  
     391     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ITA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Poverty, inequality, unemployment and the devastating effects of climate change are ills that concern every country, independently of their level of development.


  
     392     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_JAM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Together with persistent challenges linked to climate change and more frequent intense weather events, those problems all impact the pace of our development.
Our concerted action must embody effective strategies to bolster the global financial system through a robust global campaign to identify funding for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and resilience and adaptation measures to address the devastating effects of climate change and natural disasters.
Jamaica and our CARICOM brothers and sisters do not have the luxury of engaging in a philosophical debate on whether or not climate change is real.
Furthermore, the economic cost of climate-related disasters globally was $320 billion.
With special reference to the issue of climate change, I was particularly honoured by the invitation from Secretary-General Guterres to join him and President Macron of France in leading a special initiative to mobilize funds committed at the Copenhagen Summit in 2009 to the amount of $100 billion per year until 2020.
Against that background, my delegation looks forward to the climate change summit to be convened by the Secretary-General in 2019.
More specifically, I am also personally committed to working assiduously to strengthen momentum aimed at securing the promised resources to address climate-related issues, which affect all of us.
We look forward to building on the outcomes of the high-level meeting that has been convened this week on
non-communicable diseases.


  
     393     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KAZ_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Based on the outcomes of the implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action and working together to fulfil the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action for the landlocked least developed countries (LLDCs), we are working to further expand communications, enhance infrastructure, boost trade and transit, counter climate change and improve energy security.


  
     394     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KGZ_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Kyrgyzstan recognizes climate change as an existential threat to ecosystems and people.
We committed to counteracting that global threat by signing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Climate change is having an ever-increasing impact on our glaciers and water resources and contributing to the increase in natural disasters in our mountainous regions.


  
     395     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KHM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Eventually, we will all become poorer, our economies will decline, financial capital will shrink, and our ability to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and address the challenges caused by climate change will be seriously affected.
Addressing climate change is another key element for the success of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which requires the urgent and focused attention of the global community.
The fundamentals for action on climate change are undoubtedly contained in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In that spirit, Cambodia will provide full support to the Secretary- General in organizing the climate summit next year so as to foster the inspiration needed to further address climate change.


  
     396     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KIR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Moreover, the Pacific accounts for 20 per cent of the world’s oceans in terms of our exclusive economic zone, and therefore the completion of maritime boundaries is very critical to providing certainty about the ownership of our ocean space in the face of climate change.
In that connection, we note with gratitude the Committee for Development Policy’s recognition of Kiribati’s extreme vulnerability to the impacts of climate change and the need for special support.
Kiribati has also, for the first time ever, launched a climate change policy.
That focuses on building and strengthening the resilience  of our islands and people in adapting to the impacts  of climate change.
The policy highlights priority areas in water management, sanitation, coastal protection and renewable energy, and will serve as the country’s national compass for the delivery of all climate-change programmes in Kiribati.


  
     397     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KNA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need urgent action on climate change, non-communicable diseases, global cooperation, peace, prosperity and the reordering of the international financial system.
All those gains could be erased by the phenomenon of climate change.
Our people see the impact of climate change on their lives and livelihoods.
Climate change is largely the consequence of the actions of the more developed countries, their carbon emissions and harmful lifestyles, yet SIDS pay an unfair price — a price so high that, for many of us, climate change presents an existential threat.
In that connection, how will the United Nations assist our region with the growing prevalence of the
 
sargassum seaweed that has adversely impacted the Caribbean area and is thought to be a noxious side effect of global warming?
However, I must remind the Assembly that NCDs and climate change are two sides of the same coin.
We need to see all global leaders come together to create and maintain stability, equality and peace in our countries so that
our collective contributions can prevent and avoid war and violence, end the proliferation of nuclear weapons, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and create a level playing field, enabling small States to thrive.


  
     398     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KOR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Responding to climate change and transitioning to a low-carbon economy are challenges and tasks facing our generation.
We will faithfully implement the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, in compliance with the Paris Agreement, and assist developing countries in their pursuit of sustainable development by supporting them with climate-change responses.


  
     399     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_KWT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those challenges include the spread of violence, extremism and terrorism, as well as the  dangers pertaining to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the continuous violations of human rights, climate change and others.
Meeting our international obligations and achieving global solidarity represent a major leap towards attaining the Sustainable Development Goals in order to eradicate poverty in all its forms; ensure that all human beings enjoy equal rights to dignity, education, health and political participation; empower young people and women; and address the effects of climate change in the context of the historic Paris Agreement.


  
     400     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LAO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year we have been witnessing an increasing intensity in climate change and natural disasters, causing heavy losses and damage to the lives and property of people in various parts of the world.
Against that backdrop, it is more crucial than ever for world leaders to honour their commitments pledged under the Paris Agreement.
Within the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), great importance has been accorded to the  issue  of  climate  change and disaster-risk management.
We also very much appreciate the continued support of the United Nations for the ASEAN-United Nations Joint Strategic Plan of Action on Disaster Management, for the period from 2016 to 2020, which is designed to address climate change and disaster management and respond to the effects of the changing climate on socioeconomic development in years to come.


  
     401     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LCA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have seen the disastrous impact of natural disasters brought on by the changes in our climate.
Similarly, we call for an end to the restrictions on the legitimate  aspirations  of  Taiwan to participate as an observer in key international institutions, such as the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
I am also pleased to report that Saint Lucia will deposit the required instrument to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol before the start of the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC.


  
     402     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LIE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenge of climate change is a perfect illustration of the indispensability of the United Nations.
The questioning of international agreements  and  norms in the areas of trade, climate change, disarmament, migration and human rights has one common thread.


  
     403     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LKA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Hundreds of millions of people across the world spend  their days in hunger as a result of income disparities and climate change, giving rise to many issues in terms of alleviating poverty and battling the consequences of climate change.
In the face of the many challenges that cause poverty, I believe that major efforts are needed in countries heavily affected by climate change in order to help people become prosperous.
Furthermore, at the international level, we know that the United Nations plays a very important role, particularly through the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which is of huge significance to everything living on Earth.
I would like to draw members’ attention to the fact that we are committed to taking the necessary action on agreed matters under the Paris Agreement.


  
     404     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LSO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and tornadoes caused by climate change have taken their toll on humankind.


  
     405     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LTU_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

On all major challenges — terrorism, climate change and female empowerment — there is simply no alternative to working together.


  
     406     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LUX_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have heard warnings from the Secretary- General and from the scientific community: if we continue along the current path, we will not achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
We do not  know exactly how much humankind contributes to global warming or to climate change, but we have the facts, which, month after month, year after year, show with certainty that we must act because we have a responsibility to future generations.
I can only welcome all initiatives to maintain or restore the momentum of the Paris Agreement, including the Secretary-General’s proposal to convene another climate summit next year on the sidelines of the General Assembly.
Managing climate change is one of the most important goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
With regard to climate change, specific mechanisms have been developed nationally and internationally and through the private  sector.


  
     407     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_LVA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Investing in human dignity, eradicating poverty, fostering climate resilience and promoting economic and social progress will reduce the incidence of conflict, instability and despair.


  
     408     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MAR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Now more than ever we need to work together to identify consensus approaches based on humanity and solidarity in order to address shared challenges, particularly with respect to climate change, the fight against terrorism, and migration.
It is in this  spirit  that  His  Majesty has launched an effort to mobilize the world to limit the impact of climate change.
He made the United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Morocco a historical event for implementing the commitments undertaken at the Paris Climate Change Conference.


  
     409     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MCO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is clearly that of climate change.
I  therefore endorse  the   Secretary-General’s call, issued earlier this month, to end the paralysis, indifference and weak commitments to the challenge of climate change.
That is why it is imperative that the negotiations of the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change, to be held in Katowice, result in the adoption of rules
 
allowing for the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
At the national level, the energy transition pact, launched at the beginning of the year, is ambitious and seeks to achieve the goal set by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of achieving carbon neutrality by  2050  following  a 50 per cent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030.
That initiative represents a new concrete action by the Royal Government in order to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
The pact is a partnership among all elements of society and demonstrates the will of the Sovereign Prince for Monaco to remain a land of innovation, all the more so if that is likely to accelerate the transition to a carbon-free world.
In that regard, we also welcomed with the keenest interest the Secretary-General’s intention to convene a climate summit in 2019.
A few days before, Monaco will have hosted a meeting of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate  Change  with  a  view  to  issuing the special report on the ocean and cryosphere in a changing climate.


  
     410     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MDA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are working actively with our international partners, including United Nations agencies and programmes  in the area of the environment, to continually develop renewable energy and reduce gas emissions in accordance with our international commitments.


  
     411     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MDG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Much progress has been made but, as the Secretary- General has again pointed out, our  world  suffers  from a lack of trust, the reconsideration of policies and a very strong sense of insecurity — feelings that are exacerbated by inequalities in development  and the surge in global challenges that have not yet been mastered, such as climate change and terrorism, not to mention the iniquitous severity of poverty and disease.
In that context, I welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative to convene a summit on climate change next year, and I hope that special attention will be paid to developing countries, particularly the least developed countries and small island States, so that they can adapt their economic development processes to evolving environmental hazards.


  
     412     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MDV_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

That has transformed the physical landscape of the capital by consolidating three separate populations, thus helping to achieve economies of scale and better adaptation to climate change.
At the same time, we cannot create islands of progress and  prosperity  without partnering   with our friends through the kind of partnerships that are mutually beneficial, based on mutual trust and  that are envisaged in various international agendas and agreements, such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the Samoa Pathway and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The United Nations needs to be an institution where every Member State should feel welcomed, where the combined power of many ideas, many solutions and many voices can thrive in addressing the challenges of climate change, ocean degradation, poverty, exclusion and discrimination.


  
     413     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MEX_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a priority for my country.
As an international community, we have a moral obligation to put its precepts into practice and meet even more ambitious mitigation, adaptation and financing goals.


  
     414     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MHL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We would not have the United Nations Law of the Sea, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change or a great many other outcomes but for the political will of small island developing States (SIDs).
Decades ago, small island developing States warned the world of the risks of climate change, and those are still radical threats.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change stands strong as a powerful and  united  legal  commitment on the part of all —  the  largest and smallest among us — to sparing no effort in doing more to ensure a rise in average temperatures of no more than 1.5º C. I strongly support the Secretary-General’s forthcoming 2019 climate summit.
It is an opportunity at the highest levels for leaders to reshape headlines and put the Paris Agreement into motion by responding to the urgent needs for enhanced action and ambition at true scale.
This week, I announced that the Marshall Islands is transitioning to a net-zero emissions target by 2050.
The Pacific Islands Forum leaders, in last month’s Boe Declaration, declared climate change to be the single greatest security threat to our region.
That political will must extend to urgent and prioritized assistance to help  atoll  nations such  as the Marshall Islands, whose very survival is  at risk, to adapt to the climate-driven threats we already face and prevent a future tipping point only a decade or two away.
Much more political effort is needed on scaling and targeting climate finance so that good intentions from partners can make a visible impact in local communities.
Although as an atoll nation we are the most vulnerable, we are joined not only by other small island developing States but by many other countries that face serious challenges posed by climate impacts.
As Chair of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, I call on every leader in the world to join me on 22 November in an online virtual summit to ensure that no one and no country is left behind.
Only 27  years  later,  now  facing  the consequences of climate change, we are asking ourselves what legacy we as a nation will leave for our grandchildren to inherit.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands supports the recognition of Taiwan’s meaningful participation within the United Nations system, including programmes  and agencies such as the International Civil Aviation Organization, the World Health Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     415     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MKD_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

With the Paris Agreement on Climate Change we are fighting climate change and trying to build communities and nations that are resilient where threats of disaster are concerned.


  
     416     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MLI_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In addition to the devastating effects of climate change on the living conditions of our population, the Sahel has for several years faced terrorism, transnational organized crime and trafficking of all kinds, especially of drugs, arms, illicit goods and migrants, and money- laundering.
In humanitarian terms, Mali is concerned about the precarious situation of the 65 million refugees and internally displaced persons worldwide as a result of armed conflicts, natural disasters and climate change.


  
     417     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MLT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Injustice remains, and climate change could be the greatest threat to life in our history.
Emissions-trading systems can be taken to the next level.


  
     418     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MNE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Given the complex situations and challenges that the world is facing, the grave divisions for numerous reasons, the catastrophic consequences of the spread of terrorism and violent extremism, as well as climate change, there is no question that only through joint action can we succeed in resolving conflicts and preventing the further suffering of innocent people.
These agreements, primarily the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, envisage our common future and confirm that multilateralism is not an option but the only effective tool in our toolbox.
Furthermore, although its share in global emissions and population statistics is small, Montenegro is committed to the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement through the responsible and sustainable management of its development potential.
Montenegro welcomes the initiative of the Secretary-General to hold a climate  change  summit in 2019.


  
     419     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MNG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is yet another daunting challenge for humankind today, along with peace, security and development issues.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change has been ratified by 179 countries.
We therefore welcome and support the Secretary-General’s timely initiative to convene the United Nations 2019 Climate Summit
for reviewing the Paris Agreement commitments.
Global warming  and climate change impact all nations, and they are felt more intensely in the context of the economic and social development of the least- developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small  island  developing  States.
I would like to take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that, during United Nations Climate Week, my delegation will be screening a documentary entitled Blue Gold.
We are sharing that documentary with members not only to show the devastating impact of climate change in Mongolia, but also to sound the alarm about similar consequences elsewhere and appeal for timely protective steps to be taken.


  
     420     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MOZ_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Examples of that include the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and recent efforts to eliminate nuclear arms and to regulate and humanize migration with a view to averting humanitarian catastrophes.
With regard to climate change, Mozambique, as a country very vulnerable to its effects, has continued to take measures for adaptation and resilience within the framework of the Paris Agreement, which we ratified in June.


  
     421     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MRT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In order to mitigate the negative impact of climate change on economic growth and life in general, Mauritania has adopted a national policy designed to utilize renewable sources of energy.
Mauritania has ratified all the international conventions relating to climate change and, as is well known, Nouakchott hosts the headquarters of the African Agency of the Great Green Wall for the Sahara and the Sahel Initiative.


  
     422     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MUS_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Increased international tensions, intractable conflicts, expanding pockets of poverty throughout the world, growing inequalities, the deterioration of the oceans, climate change, violent extremism and terrorism, nationalism, cyberthreats, escalating militarization and forced migration are only some of the perils that endanger global peace  and security.
Pathway remains a valid road map for  us  to measure how much progress has been achieved in addressing the challenges and difficulties faced by small island developing States (SIDS), including climate change.
The stark effects of climate change are being felt all around the world.
As we have seen in California, the Carolinas, the Philippines, China, Europe and elsewhere, the frequency of extreme weather events demonstrates that climate change can affect every country  on  every continent.
Without a renewed global commitment to undertaking ambitious efforts aimed at combating climate change and adapting to its effects, we will fail to meet the
targets of the Paris Agreement and endanger our planet, as well as our own survival.
We cannot dissociate the climate from our oceans.
Our planet’s future also depends on our ability to further protect the oceans and increase their ability to act as a buffer against climate change.


  
     423     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_MWI_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

On another matter, Malawi is  both a victim and  a fighter of climate change.
The consequences of climate change are real, devastating and often tragic on a large scale.
For that reason, I would like to urge all Governments, business leaders, investors and civil society to fight to bend the curve of carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 and to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We need adequate, predictable and sustainable resources of climate financing, such as the Green Climate Fund, in order to support our actions.
Given the hostile consequences of climate change, food insecurity and malnutrition are  serious  threats in a country that still relies on rain-fed subsistence agriculture.
We support the United Nations initiatives in fighting global systemic threats and challenges, including terrorism and climate change.


  
     424     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NER_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

My delegation can therefore only welcome that appropriate choice of theme in a world facing multiple challenges, such as terrorism, violent extremism, climate change, migration  and  poverty, all of which require greater international cooperation and responsible engagement on the part of all of us.
In addition, as a country of the Sahel with two thirds of its land area in the desert, the Niger is being hit hard by the effects of climate change, whose economic consequences are on the verge of making people’s lives intolerable.
The 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change represents a unique opportunity to save our planet.
Accordingly, in November, at President Mahamadou Issoufou’s initiative as Chair of the Sahel climate commission, my country will host a round table for technical and financial partners to identify guidelines for the implementation of the Sahel region climate investment plan.
Financing the plan will enable the Sahel countries to manage the impact of climate change on populations and ecosystems more effectively.
They involve terrorism, cross-border crime, extreme poverty and climate and  environmental  shocks,  all of which have disrupted our agro-pastoral economy and increased the vulnerability of the peoples of the Sahel.


  
     425     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NGA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Irregular migration is not a consequence of conflicts alone, but of the effects of climate change and the lack of opportunities at home.
Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges of our time.
Very close to us at home, it is our lot in Nigeria, together with our neighbours around the Lake Chad basin, to live with the climate change consequences of a drastically shrunken Lake Chad and the parching up of otherwise fertile arable lands.


  
     426     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NIC_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need urgent  action  to  combat climate change.


  
     427     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NLD_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. Annan’s legacy is one of international cooperation, and of fighting illiteracy, poverty, inequality and climate change as root causes of conflict and human rights violations.
The Millennium Development Goals proved him right, and it is up to us, the leaders of the united nations of the world, to carry this legacy forward and make the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement a reality.
We have learned that systematically reducing poverty demands more than money alone, that ending an armed conflict takes more than Blue Helmets alone, that gender equality and education are essential for peace and development, and that sustainability, climate resilience and international stability go hand in hand.
That brings me to a topic that is very important to me personally and to the Kingdom of the Netherlands: water management and adaptation to climate change.
So those present can imagine that rising sea levels and the increase in extreme weather are of serious concern to us, as they are for the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom, which are especially vulnerable during the hurricane season.
Of course, we look forward to next year’s climate summit in New York because it should provide a platform to delve deeper into the links among climate resilience, financing and security.
Climate and water are, by their nature, issues that can be dealt with only multilaterally, using an integrated approach.
The Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 set clear objectives.
What we need now is international transparency, fair market mechanisms and a level playing field so that all countries can do their part in adapting to climate change.


  
     428     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NOR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Trade conflicts, violent extremism, climate change and instability at the global level directly affect us at home, but so do also the benefits of world trade, the global fight against infectious diseases and the rule of law.
Thirty per cent of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions are absorbed by the oceans.
We will highlight the consequences of climate change and the links between security and sustainable development.


  
     429     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NPL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Challenges ranging from poverty, terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, forced displacement and natural disasters to an arms race continue to confront the global community.
With regard to climate change, the clock of caution is loudly ticking.
The impact of climate change burdens the poorest and most vulnerable countries, like my own country, Nepal, despite their negligible emissions of greenhouse gases.
The impacts of climate change on mountainous and small island countries are felt as an existential threat.
We must act decisively to ensure that climate justice respects the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
To make that happen, international cooperation and collaboration to promote adaptation and mitigation are a sine qua non.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change must be implemented in its entirety and in good faith.
The Secretary- General’s opening statement largely captures the realities of the contemporary world and the sentiment of Member States in the areas of peace and security, sustainable development, climate change, migration and technology.


  
     430     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NRU_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The negative externalities of consumption-based economic growth have destroyed the health of our oceans and the safety of our climate.
But in the face of climate change, developing effective strategies for dealing with them has become much more urgent.
We are ready to seize the opportunity presented by cheap solar energy and free ourselves from the expensive burden of fossil fuels.
For a modest investment, the world would have visible evidence that the future we want — a clean, zero-carbon society — is well within our grasp.
Building a more inclusive United Nations also requires addressing the most urgent global challenges, which include the security implications of climate change.
In that regard, I would like to reiterate the call I made in July in the Security Council for the appointment of a special representative of the Secretary- General on climate and security (see S/PV.8307).
A special representative, supported by a well-resourced staff, is needed to help us start managing climate risks more effectively.


  
     431     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_NZL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we are looking for an example of where the next generation is calling on us to make that change, we need look no further than climate change.
It was at that meeting, in the small island nation of Nauru, that climate change was declared the single biggest threat to security in the Pacific.
Of all the challenges we debate and discuss, rising sea levels present the single biggest threat to our region.
For those who live in the South Pacific, the impacts of climate change are not academic, or even arguable.
They are watching the sea levels rise, the extreme weather events increase and the impact that has on their water supply and food crops.
We can talk all we like about the science and what it means and what temperature rises we need to limit in order to survive, but there is a grinding reality in hearing people from  a Pacific island talk about where the sea was when they were children and the potential loss of their entire village now that they are adults.
Nations like Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands or
Kiribati — small countries that have contributed the least to global climate change — are suffering, and will suffer, the full force of a warming planet.
If my Pacific neighbours do not have the option of opting out of the effects of climate change, why should we be able to opt out of taking action to stop it?
Any disintegration of multilateralism and any undermining of climate-related targets and agreements are not interesting footnotes in geopolitical history.
The threat that climate change poses demands it.
But we represent less than 0.2 per cent of global emissions.
That is why, as a global community, not since the inception of the United Nations has there been a greater example than climate change of the importance of collective action and multilateralism.


  
     432     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PAK_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenges of climate change, environmental degradation, pandemics, transnational organized crime and sustainable development are becoming ever more complex.
Third, climate change poses serious challenges to all States.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change must not be allowed to be held hostage to sectoral interests.
Even  as  Pakistan contributes  minimally to
 
global emissions, our country remains among the most vulnerable.


  
     433     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PER_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

With regard to climate change, it is clear that Peru is one of the world’s most vulnerable countries in terms of climate change.
Our people’s primary natural asset is our great biodiversity, and changes in temperature and extreme climatic events such as droughts and heavy rains therefore make us particularly vulnerable.
In order to combat climate change, we have to overcome poverty.
We need responsible investments to continue growing because the poorest of our people are the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
I had the privilege, in one of my Government’s first actions, to see a climate change framework law enacted with the aim of reducing our vulnerability to climate change and taking advantage of opportunities for growth through low-emission development.
Furthermore, we are one of the few countries that has an action plan for both gender and climate change, because women are the most vulnerable of all.
That is both my personal belief and a State policy, so I can assure the Assembly that Peru will continue to promote action   at the national and international levels to effectively combat climate change.
For a developing country like Peru, the United Nations represents a platform for shared action to achieve sustainable development, promote human rights
and address global challenges such as climate change, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons, systematic corruption and illicit drug trafficking.


  
     434     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PLW_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Palau’s core priorities are health, oceans and climate change, through which the rest of our development objectives, through genuine and durable partnerships, will be realized.
My Government also takes very seriously its contribution to the Paris Agreement, which is also integral to our plans for achieving SDG 13 and other relevant goals.
Climate change is the greatest challenge of our generation.
Building the resilience of vulnerable countries to the effects of climate change must be an urgent global priority.
Palau has developed a climate change policy framework with the aim of undertaking effective adaptation measures to deal with the expected effects of climate change, strengthen our capacity to prepare and minimize disaster risks and mitigate climate change by working towards low-carbon emission through clean energy initiatives.
Meanwhile, we continue to work with our global and regional partners to build capacity and mainstream climate change into our national planning and budgeting process.
We take very seriously our responsibility to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions as part of the global effort to limit the temperature rise to 1.5° Celsius.
Palau also reiterates its call, as a member of the Pacific small island developing States, for the appointment of a Special Representative of the Secretary-General on climate and security, which would address a significant gap in the United Nations system.


  
     435     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PNG_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are preparing our people to cope with the increasing dangers arising from climate change, which are very real for us.
Earlier this month, as I have said, at the Pacific Island Forum leaders meeting, in Nauru, we reaffirmed our strong commitment to working together to combat the adverse impacts of climate change under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Paris Agreement and other frameworks for the resilient development of the Pacific region.
We  therefore  strongly  welcome the Secretary-General’s climate summit to be held in September 2019.
Accordingly, we sympathize with other countries, such as Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, China, the United States of America, the countries of the Caribbean and others that have been affected in recent times by months of natural disasters and climate-change-induced challenges.
We naturally welcome the efforts made to replenish the financing available through the Green Climate Fund and thank the contributors for their generosity.
Improved and timely access is imperative, especially for small island developing countries such as ours, in order to benefit from that important support to help us to mitigate, adapt and build resilience to the ravages of climate change and its adverse impacts and natural disasters.


  
     436     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_POL_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

In December, Poland will have the honour to host the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 24) in the city of Katowice.
The primary goal of that meeting is to finalize work on the provisions implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
A complete and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement is inextricably linked with the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Therefore, global climate action should incorporate the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and be conducive to stopping global warming and eradicating the most serious problems of the modern world.
COP 24 will be launched at a summit of leaders, to be held on 3 and 4 December, and offers an excellent opportunity to express our common and responsible political will.


  
     437     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PRT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Multilateralism, based on international law and the Charter of the United Nations, the reform of the Organization, conflict prevention, peacekeeping and the maintenance of peace, concern for migration and refugees, combating terrorism and international crime, the oceans and maritime security, climate change, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, gender equality and support for our
young people are all aimed at the permanent upholding of human rights.
Global governance of the oceans, supported by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, is a just cause.
We regard a healthy environment as a fundamental right; we support carbon neutrality by 2050 and, with Lebanon, we are jointly chairing the ad hoc open-ended working group with a view to drafting a global pact for the environment.
It minimizes the importance of multilateralism in anything to do with sustainable development, is prone to climate change denial, opposes global compacts on migration and refugees and is interested in conflict prevention and peacekeeping on the rare occasions when and where they suit it, and they are more likely to suit it when the emphasis is on economic rather than political power.


  
     438     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PRY_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a priority,  climate  change  is  unquestionably a global challenge.
We States have a  crucial decision in our hands — we can slow climate change and deal with its consequences, or deny it and continue making it worse.
With its adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015, the international community decided to work together to combat climate change, without ignoring the historical responsibility that the most highly developed nations have for the production of greenhouse gases.


  
     439     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_PSE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Thirdly, there are also agreements with Israel, such as the Oslo Accords and the Paris Agreement.


  
     440     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ROU_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

For  example,  climate  change has become one of  the  toughest  global  challenges.
Its consequences — be they water shortages, food insecurity, the displacement of people or rising sea levels — threaten lives all around the world.
In addition to the efforts of other United Nations platforms to tackle climate-related risks, the Security Council could create a framework to address them in an integrated manner.
We welcomed the  organization  of  a  debate  in the Security Council in July on aspects of peace and security related to climate change (see  S/PV.8307), and we are ready to follow up on  the topic if elected  as a non-permanent member.
Ahead of the preparation of the Secretary-General’s climate summit next year, during its presidency of the Council of the European Union Romania will host an international conference on the theme “Building resilience to natural disasters”, as a platform to exchange views on how to assess and more effectively address climate-related security risks and enhance the basis for a resilient future.


  
     441     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_RUS_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

There have been attacks on the basic principles of the Middle East peace process, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on the Iranian nuclear programme, commitments under the framework of  the World Trade Organization, the multilateral Paris Agreement on Climate Change and many more.


  
     442     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SEN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

These global challenges, including terrorism, extremist, xenophobic and racist abuses, poverty, migration, global warming and market regulation, require  that we find comprehensive and inclusive solutions to them through multilateralism.
Furthermore, we must come to an agreement on issues related to climate change.
In this regard, I would like to reiterate my country’s support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to which it remains committed, as well as to the fight against desertification and coastal erosion, in particular.
As an African and coastal country that is particularly vulnerable to climate change, Senegal reiterates its call for increasing the endowment of the Green Climate Fund, with a view to giving States such as ours, which contribute less pollution and are more exposed to climate change, the opportunity to undertake appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures.


  
     443     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SGP_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Non-State actors and transboundary threats, terrorism, pandemics and climate change remain a clear and present danger.
That is simply another example of the global commons, and we cannot allow the tragedy of the commons to occur in cyberspace, in the sea or in the area of climate change.


  
     444     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SLB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

While we in Solomon Islands are not subject to threats of an armed invasion, we are nevertheless continuously being invaded by a common enemy, one that the international community calls climate change.
Climate change is now the greatest threat facing humankind.
The resulting climate-change-related extreme weather events mean that Solomon Islands — like other  Pacific island countries and, as we have just heard,  the Caribbean — is increasingly susceptible to natural disasters of great severity.
The threat of sea-level rise, as well as the inundation and salination of arable land and the destruction of biodiversity, partially caused by a warming ocean and acidification, are elements that give rise to food-security concerns, and increase the risk of potential conflicts.
In the light of that threat, Solomon Islands calls for collective global leadership on climate change action and strengthened commitment to achieving positive outcomes during the  twenty-fourth  session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is to be held in Katowice, Poland, this year.
Solomon Islands joins other Pacific island States in strongly urging the largest emitters of greenhouse gases to take urgent actions to reduce those harmful emissions: reduce now, or regret later.
In the ongoing dialogue on climate challenge, appropriate financial support to SIDS to address their losses and the damage resulting from the destructive effects of climate change must be seriously considered.
In our efforts to reduce our reliance on fossil  fuels and meet our intended nationally determined contributions, Solomon Islands remains committed to transitioning to the use of renewable energy.
On behalf of my Government and the people of Solomon Islands, I extend our gratitude to our partners, including the World Bank, the Green Climate Fund, the Economic Development Cooperation Fund of Korea, the Australian Development Assistance Bureau and the
 
Asian Development Bank, for their financial assistance and support for the Tina River hydrodevelopment project.
Some of them now include new threats such as climate change, cybercrimes and transnational organized crime, among others.
In the Pacific, security concerns are driven by external factors, human security and climate-change challenges.
The biggest threat facing the Pacific islands,  apart from climate change, is the threat caused by non-communicable diseases (NCDs).
Solomon Islands continues to call for the participation of Taiwan in United Nations specialized bodies, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the World Health Organization and the International Civil Aviation Organization.


  
     445     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SLE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our commitment to building a peaceful and  more secure world, as enshrined in  the  Charter  of the United Nations, as well as our commitment to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the ongoing reform processes of the United Nations, perfectly resonates with the theme for this session, “Making the United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”.
The world needs a stronger United Nations more than ever before, as well as consistent and effective multilateralism that collectively evaluates and cooperatively resolves humankind’s common challenges, from trade to climate change and from world security to our common humanity and our collective social and economic well-being.


  
     446     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SLV_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We also want to express our solidarity with the Government and the people of the United States for the effects of Hurricane Florence and those in the Philippines and China who have been affected by the devastating climate events in their countries.
Those contributions must respond to a comprehensive, long- term perspective in order to ensure inclusive economic growth and end poverty for the millions of people who are suffering the worst consequences of climate change and the unfair distribution of wealth.
We  recently  suffered  one  of  the  longest  droughts in our history, a reality that climate change has inflicted on us.
If we are to tackle that situation, it is crucial to ensure that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change continues to be implemented and the current Green Climate Fund crisis is resolved.
As a country that hardly pollutes globally but suffers the effects of climate change caused by others, El Salvador urgently needs access to financing for climate-change mitigation and adaptation action that will improve its population’s security and resilience.
Our adoption in Bonn of a global initiative at the twenty-third Conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change has enabled us to move forward with the large-scale restoration of our ecosystems and to become an example of a small country with limited financial resources capable of protecting its environment.
As a founding State of the United Nations and a country respectful of international law, El Salvador recognizes the importance of multilateralism in addressing such global challenges as peace, a more just economic order, climate change, migration and sustainable development.


  
     447     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SMR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The effects of climate change represent  one  of the greatest challenges of our time because of their unprecedented impact on our lives and, in particular, on the lives of the poorest and most vulnerable.
With an average temperature rise of 1.1° C above pre-industrial levels, 2017 was one of the hottest three years of all time.
The effects of climate change do not respect national borders.
Moreover, it is essential to strengthen international cooperation in order to help developing countries move towards a low-emission economy.
The Republic of San Marino recognizes the deep synergy between the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda and welcomes the recent entry into force of the agreement.
Events related to climate change, such as drought, which generates food and water shortages, have increased competition for access to those and other natural resources.
In addition to persecution and armed conflicts, natural disasters, such as floods, earthquakes and hurricanes, partly resulting from the effects of climate change, have forced millions of people to seek refuge in other countries.
The global compact is a clear example of what multilateralism can do and shows its potential and importance, in similar fashion as do the recent 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.


  
     448     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SRB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are already feeling the grave consequences of climate change, migration and terrorism, the rise of populism and the divisions between us at a time when we need greater convergence.
That will help us deal with climate change, by far the biggest challenge ahead of us.


  
     449     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_STP_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The leadership role of our Organization undoubtedly goes hand in hand with actions that bring together efforts to combat climate change.
We are confronted every day with the devastating effects of climate change around the world.
Global efforts must continue
under the auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and they must be a shared responsibility for everyone, because it is up to all of us to safeguard the future for coming generations.
At the beginning of my statement, I alluded to the most recent tragic example of the effects of climate change in Indonesia.
It is therefore urgent to implement the provisions of the Paris Agreement, so that the necessary technical, financial and human resources are properly directed towards the immensity of the task at hand.
The United Nations must assume its role as a leader in the global efforts to bring development to all peoples, in the unceasing pursuit of peaceful solutions to the ongiong conflicts in the world, in combating climate change, reducing inequalities, promoting gender equality and equity, fighting the scourge of terrorism and hatred based on race, sexual orientation and religious beliefs, promoting intercultural dialogue among peoples, and in the uncompromising defence of peace and human rights.


  
     450     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SUR_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is required in order to create the necessary platform to address global concerns, including the mobilization of funds to mitigate the effects of climate change.
Being a low-lying coastal State, Suriname is among the most threatened countries directly impacted by sea- level rise.
Although Suriname contributes significantly to the mitigation of the effects of climate change through its high level of forest cover and low  deforestation rate, regrettably, we must acknowledge that global commitments, based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, have yet to materialize in the form of tangible results.
Suriname is one of 11 countries with a high level of forest cover and a low deforestation rate, representing 20 per cent of the Earth’s remaining tropical forests and storing 18 per cent of tropical forest carbon.
At the twenty-third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change last year, Suriname pledged to maintain its forest coverage at  93 per cent.
We also made the conditional commitment to sustain our leadership position as one of the most carbon-negative countries.
It is against the backdrop of that reality that Suriname will host a high- level conference on climate finance mobilization in February 2019.
Multilateralism remains essential for undertaking joint actions aimed at achieving sustainable development and addressing matters of global concern, such as maintaining peace and security, combating terrorism and transnational organized crime and  addressing the issue of climate change.


  
     451     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SVK_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is why our unity in implementing the development goals, in fighting climate change and addressing migration is so important.
None of our countries, even the most powerful, is big enough to face present challenges on its own, be they migration, terrorism, climate change or sustaining solid economic growth.


  
     452     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SVN_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change are, in our view, two documents that together
provide a clear path and vision for a more sustainable future for our planet and prosperity  for  its  people.


  
     453     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SWE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have aimed at introducing an all-inclusive approach to peace, including by analysing new risks such as climate change and the risk of famine.
The commitments made in the Helsinki Final Act and the Budapest Memorandum must be honoured and the full implementation of the Minsk Agreements assured.
Another global promise was made in Paris, when we all agreed to seriously and urgently address climate change.
The gap between current commitments and the required emissions reductions under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is alarmingly large.
Sweden has adopted a climate-policy framework that establishes that Sweden will have net zero emissions in 2045.
We have also taken a leading role in climate finance, and we remain firmly committed to mobilizing our share of the $100 billion annually by 2020.


  
     454     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_SYC_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Speaking from the standpoint of an islander, I cannot dissociate the concept of lasting peace and prosperity from the perils of climate change.
Climate change has become an existential threat not merely to the lives of people in island States but to the world as a whole.
We see its effects in our eroding coastlines and unpredictable weather patterns, on our coral reefs and rising sea levels.
Should we not uphold the commitments we have made — from the Paris Climate Change Conference to the Conference of the twenty-third session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Bonn last year under Fiji’s presidency — we will reach an inescapable crisis.
We are acutely aware of the challenges that poses with the threat of climate change.
Nevertheless, we recognize that will not be enough to meet all our sustainable-development and climate-action obligations under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement and the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action Pathway.


  
     455     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TCD_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We live in a world experiencing perpetual change where we are confronted with the serious consequences of climate change, conflicts and crises, underdevelopment, unprecedented    migratory    flows,     nationalism and isolationism.
The Lake Chad Conventional Basin is the place where the dramatic consequences of the combined effect of terrorist attacks and climate change on the vulnerable populations, victims of these two scourges, as well as on the environment, are most visible.
In this regard, Chad once again urges all parties to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda to fulfil their commitments.
In addition to this are factors such as demographic pressure and the adverse effects of climate change, further accentuating the vulnerability of African societies.


  
     456     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TGO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

This new restructuring of development mechanisms must also aim at the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The challenges of climate change are vital, and our response must not wait.
Obviously, in our response to the challenges of climate change, a significant place must be given to the promotion of partnerships and innovative mechanisms for financing development, in accordance with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.
The consequences of climate change are terrible, and migration is decimating a significant part of Africa’s young people and making them vulnerable.


  
     457     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_THA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are also working on raising public awareness of climate change.


  
     458     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TJK_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global challenges such as climate change, terrorism and extremism, large-scale conflicts, inequality, poverty, food and water insecurity, lack of education and economic opportunities, and unemployment — to name but a few — further affect the status quo.
At the same time, Member States should also play an active part in that process by meeting their commitments, undertaken in the 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to restore stability and thereby to ensure development.


  
     459     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TLS_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

One of the main challenges of our times is, without a doubt, climate change.
I take this opportunity to highlight the importance of active and extensive cooperation aimed at pursuing urgent and real action to deal with the threat facing small island developing States, including those in the Pacific region, which are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
Conflicts, wars, situations of inequality and climate change have resulted in an intense migratory movement throughout the world.


  
     460     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TON_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are, however, not without  challenges, for example, as shown in rising obesity rates.
Climate change continues to pose significant security threats to us as island States.
In Nauru earlier this month, Pacific leaders endorsed an expanded concept of security in their communiqué and the Boe Declaration, linking, inter alia, climate change and threats to international peace and security.
In that regard, Tonga welcomes the establishment of the Group of Friends on Climate and Security to further highlight the nexus between the threats of climate change with threats to international peace and security.
We note with concern the devastating impacts of climate change on our marine environment.
Baselines that determine our territorial boundaries, once established under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, should not be affected and should remain unchanged, despite the effects of sea-level rise.
Our sovereignty must not be compromised by climate change.
Tonga looks forward to taking our important work forward at the twenty-fourth session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change under the leadership of Poland in December.
We seek to strongly address the adverse impacts of climate
 
change and the urgent need for innovation in adaptation for SIDS.
Finally, sustainable development —  whether  it be, inter alia, through good health and well-being, climate action, life below water or affordable and clean
energy — can be realized only through international peace and security.
We continue to look to the Security Council to protect the innocent from threats to international peace and security in any form, be they traditional threats such as armed conflict or newer threats such as climate change, to ensure that no one is left behind.


  
     461     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TTO_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The existential threat posed by unmitigated climate change and global warming, extreme poverty, violent extremism, gender-based violence and the spread of new and infectious diseases is one that is best faced together as Members of the  United  Nations.
However,   no   challenge  is   more  pressing  than
climate change.
For small island developing States such
 
as Trinidad and Tobago, casting doubt on the scientific truth behind climate change only serves to distract and delay the urgent and ambitious action that is needed to confront the existential threat posed by global warming.
Earlier this year, the Government  of  Trinidad  and Tobago deposited its  instrument  of  ratification to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, thereby formalizing its steadfast commitment to the principles and goals of the Agreement.
As our national contribution to achieving the overarching objectives of the Paris Agreement, Trinidad and Tobago has committed to reducing cumulative greenhouse-gas emissions from industry, power generation and the transport sector by 15 per cent by the year 2030.
As a State party to the agreement, Trinidad and Tobago will be actively engaged in the negotiating process within the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which seeks to operationalize the Paris Agreement on a scale that will  result  in  achieving the long-term temperature goal and further limit the increase in global temperature to 1.5°C.
It is also hoped that the operationalization process will catalyse international cooperation on mitigation, adaptation and climate finance to that end.
Our commitment to the  Paris  Agreement reflects Trinidad and Tobago’s assumption of overall responsibility to support international efforts to tackle shared environmental challenges, which include climate change, ozone depletion, land degradation, the loss of biodiversity, the illegal trade in wildlife and the movement of hazardous waste.
The challenge of our time is to pursue and achieve a sustainable future for all in the face of burgeoning threats to our shared humanity, including but not limited to the threats posed by extreme poverty, rising inequality, climate change and protracted conflicts.


  
     462     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TUV_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is the leadership that the world needs in order to succeed against the defining global challenges facing the United Nations, in particular in connection with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the role of that Agenda in combating climate change and environmental degradation.
For small island developing States (SIDS) and least developed countries, the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals depends entirely on how we address issues of climate change.
The current global warming trend spells a very bleak and miserable future for small island developing States, especially for low-lying atolls such as Tuvalu — a future that demands huge investments in mitigation and adaptation that are simply beyond our capabilities.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change offers us a lifeline.
But the current commitments contained in the Paris Agreement constitute only a third of what is required in order to avoid the catastrophic consequences of climate change, which poses a direct threat to our existence and survival.
As already established by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), unless the global community steps up its actions to significantly lower greenhouse-gas emissions, SIDS like Tuvalu will disappear completely within the next 30 to 50 years — disappear completely.
And what would you do?”
Climate change is a weapon of  mass destruction.
The United Nations cannot and must not allow the biggest greenhouse-gas emitters to turn away from their moral duty and responsibility to urgently reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and to save SIDS like Tuvalu by providing the appropriate adaptation support and resources.
Every single year wasted
with no action taken on climate change draws Tuvalu a year closer to its total demise on Earth.
Tuvalu, whose islands and lagoons were used by the American forces in the Second World War to conquer the enemy in the Pacific, urges President Trump and the United States of America to rejoin the Paris Agreement so that we can all paddle together to save the world against our single most threatening enemy, namely, climate change.
Failing that, Tuvalu proposes that we, the signatories of the Paris Agreement, quickly return to Paris to critically and urgently reassess our mitigation pledges and dramatically increase our efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas pollution.
The next Conference of Parties in Poland is a critically important milestone for climate-change action.
We must ensure that the implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement are concluded.
We must also ensure that the Talanoa Dialogue process leads to a strong political declaration and decision that respond adequately to the IPCC 1.5°C  report and  set a pathway for enhanced climate-change action.
In that regard, we seek a commitment from every nation to enhance its efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions as a matter of urgency.
We in Tuvalu are fully committed to shifting to 100 per cent renewable energy by 2020 despite our negligible greenhouse-gas emissions.
I wish to acknowledge the efforts of notable members of the Security Council in bringing climate change to the fore of its peace and security agenda.
It    is our humble hope that the entire Security Council membership can agree to include climate change as a permanent agenda item.
We believe that the nexus between climate change and security is fundamental.
For a nation like Tuvalu,
 
security and the future are contingent upon urgent action to address climate change.
We therefore reiterate our call for the appointment of a special representative of the Secretary-General on climate change and security.
We also call on the Security Council to appoint a special rapporteur to produce a regular review of global, regional and national security threats caused by climate change.
We welcome the successful conclusion of the intergovernmental negotiation on the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration and commend the spirit of responsible leadership and multilateral cooperation extended to efforts to support the ever- increasing populations that are being affected by conflicts and environmental crises, We believe, however, that all human rights of  people displaced as a result of climate change should be protected under an international legal agreement.
We therefore reiterate Tuvalu’s proposal for a United Nations resolution on the establishment of a legal process to protect the human rights of people displaced by climate change.
This year, Tuvalu proposed that it remain a least developed country, because its ability to achieve sustainable development is being severely compromised by its vulnerability to climate change.
We are in the process of developing a Pacific Island climate-change insurance facility.
The oceans are what we are, our culture, our life and our survival, but global warming, acidification, coral bleaching, solid wastes and plastic pollution and diminishing inshore and offshore stocks of fisheries, on which national economies depend, are gravely affecting the oceans.
In conclusion, Tuvalu strongly believes that its collective effort to achieve the aspirations of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to secure global peace, security and prosperity will be severely compromised unless we all paddle together, as a family, to urgently address climate change and save Tuvalu and the world.


  
     463     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_TZA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change and global warming, which are already wreaking havoc on lives and property in all regions regardless of national borders, can be addressed effectively only through multilateral approaches.
It is also through unmitigated multilateralism that we will be able to address critical global challenges, such as terrorism, extremism, radicalism, climate change, restrictive trade policies, trafficking in persons, drug abuse, pandemic diseases, absolute and abject poverty, immigration dynamics and weapons of mass destruction, just to mention a few.


  
     464     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_UGA_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate  change  remains  a   major   challenge and a threat to our efforts to achieve sustainable development.
Uganda supported the efforts to reach the new, universally binding Paris Agreement on Climate Change, reached in December 2015.
There is a need for the enhanced delivery of finance to the most vulnerable countries to support their climate-change mitigation and adaptation measures.


  
     465     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_URY_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Such an agenda should put special emphasis on the transformation of the energy matrix towards renewable sources and adaptation to verifiable climate change; on making progress in the irrefutible responsibility to protect our environment; and, as members are aware, on the fight for the health of our people, which is the struggle for
 
life, the main human right that all the beings on this planet have.
I am speaking of environmental degradation and the consequences of climate change.
That is the case of the December 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, concluded within the framework of the 1994 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     466     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_VAT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The coming global compacts, one for migration and the other on refugees, will provide a continuum of protection for all those forced to flee from their place of residence, including those displaced by sudden- onset and slow-onset natural disasters, climate change and environmental degradation, ensuring that no one is left behind.
That principle of interconnectedness is found in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
We should put all our efforts into achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and the demanding goals of the Paris Agreement.
The Holy See hopes that the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Katowice, Poland, this December, will provide a strong step in that direction through a good and effective advancement on the work programme of the Paris Agreement.


  
     467     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_VCT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today, climate change is indisputably the defining, multifaceted existential problem that we are collectively  confronting.
However, the prospects for an effective international solution to climate change are rapidly receding.
Our carefully calibrated  climate  accords  are  teetering  on the brink of irrelevance, wounded not only by high-profile withdrawals but also by cynical and foolhardy non-compliance with voluntary mitigation pledges that major emitters have loudly declared but quietly disregarded.
Beyond the headlines, the story of climate change is grimly told in daily experiences of floods, droughts, landslides, coastal erosion and lost lives and livelihoods across our region.
The rising seas and intensifying storms pose an existential threat to small island developing States in particular.
Major emitters that fail to set and honour ambitious mitigation pledges are committing a direct act of hostility against small island developing States, and we ought to resist their recklessness in acting against our interests.
Similarly, the financing of climate resilience and adaptation measures by our development partners cannot be shoehorned into the same glacially slow, labyrinthine bureaucratic processes that have stymied other cooperation initiatives.
Our friends and partners
must recognize the fierce urgency of that unfamiliar and unprecedented climate threat and take decisive political and development action to arrest this extraordinary existential problem.
Climate change cannot be handled by business-as-usual practices, however tried and true.
Our global climate accords have birthed entities with the ostensible objectives of funnelling and delivering urgently needed mitigation and adaptation financing to the most vulnerable States.
We have mainstreamed and prioritized goals related to clean energy, economic growth, sustainability, climate action and biodiversity.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has played a leadership role in the post-financial crisis response of the United Nations, the revitalization of the General Assembly, Security Council reform, the advancement of the law of the sea, small-arms control, ambitious measures to combat climate change and the global response to non-communicable diseases.


  
     468     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_VNM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The United Nations has also been vital in efforts to address global issues, including reducing poverty, protecting women and children, promoting human rights, improving health care, culture and education, preserving the environment and responding to climate change.
The effects of climate change and environmental pollution are widespread.


  
     469     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_VUT_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Pacific region is committed to strengthening climate resilience as quickly as possible so as to build a strong region.
Nature continues to warn us of the imminent dangers to our planet as it approaches a point of no return beyond which our climate systems will no longer be able to cope.
Summer heatwaves, huge forest fires, extreme drought and the increasing frequency and scale of weather events have brought the debate on global warming to an indisputable level of importance.
I sincerely hope that those warnings will provoke concerted climate action.
As the world’s most at-risk country in terms of exposure to natural hazards, according to the World Risk Index of the United Nations University, for Vanuatu climate change continues to be the biggest threat to attaining the national targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and it is currently our worst problem, putting the lives of tens of thousands at risk.
If
the level of greenhouse-gas emissions continues to rise relentlessly, we will witness an escalation of the costs associated with the effects of climate change, costs that vulnerable countries such as Vanuatu cannot afford.
The Governments of  industrialized  countries have pledged $100 billion annually by 2020 to finance climate-change mitigation measures in vulnerable countries.
We call for prioritizing those commitments and putting in place a specific road map for mobilizing and accumulating the promised funds as soon as possible, because climate change is upon us.
We also call for more flexible access to climate funding by simplifying validation procedures, so that vulnerable countries can take action and repair the damage caused by climate change.
The Pacific region cannot afford to see the Paris Agreement on Climate Change relegated to the archives of the United Nations.
We therefore call for the Paris Agreement’s work programme to be completed and made operational at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Katowice, Poland.
Climate change threatens the sustainability of the environment, sustainable development and people’s inalienable  rights,  both now and in the future.
It represents a real danger to the survival of future generations and to low-lying countries in the Pacific.
The current pledges being made through nationally determined contributions are simply not enough to reverse climate change.
The parties to the Paris Agreement must intensify their ambitions to reach the agreed target limit of no more than 1.5° C. For vulnerable countries, especially in our region, a failure to do so would mean even greater exposure to more frequent natural disasters.


  
     470     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_WSM_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Put simply, climate change poses our single greatest threat, especially to small island developing States like Samoa — albeit not through our doing or choice — and the need for the international community to take effective action to mitigate its impact is urgent and real.
Climate change also encompasses the breadth of security issues facing our blue Pacific region, including human security, environmental and resource security and transnational crime and cybersecurity.
As we have explained to the United Nations before, climate change is one of the most pressing security challenges facing island countries, affecting food security and access to safe water and fundamentally affecting our ability to draw sustenance from the pristine ocean and seas that surround us.
Climate change affects the whole of Samoa’s realities and aspirations.
As a united community, there is a great deal that we can do to arrest, and even reverse, the threat of climate change, although its effects are worsening by the day.
Acting alone, no one country or single group of nations or organization can win the war against climate change.
Our Paris Agreement on Climate Change was a beacon of hope, especially for vulnerable island States.
Importantly, it places the responsibility of addressing climate change squarely on every leader and every individual country in terms of the implementation of their nationally determined contributions to the Paris Agreement.
It is indeed worrisome and alarming that the level of commitments to the Paris Agreement by Member States will not keep global warming anywhere below 1.5° C, which is the ideal and moral goal required to save planet Earth.
We must work together with a sense of urgency and commitment to address climate change today.
The United Nations remains our last best hope to provide the political will and the necessary commitment to turn the tide against climate change.
Samoa appeals to States Members of our Organization in positions of world leadership to lead the charge in finding and implementing solutions to the causes of climate change.
The Pacific region is already dealing with the destructive impact of climate change and disasters.
Unprecedented cyclones, floods, droughts, sea level rise and ocean acidification are taking their toll  on  the health and well-being of our peoples, environment and economies.
It  is incumbent on each individual leader and country to raise the level of ambition, not just as an aspirational goal but as deliverables under the Paris Agreement.
For the Pacific peoples and our blue Pacific region, urgent, ambitious action on climate change is the only option.
We welcome the determination that we heard in the Secretary-General’s remarks to the General Assembly earlier this month to sound the alarm on the need for bolder action on climate change (see A/73/PV.6).
That trend, coupled with broader challenges, such as climate change, rising inequality, resource depletion, maritime-boundary disputes and advances in technology, will continue to shape the Pacific regional security environment.
Pacific Island Forum members have a very proud history of working collectively in response to events and issues that have challenged regional security, peace and stability, from the 1985 Rarotonga Treaty, which created a nuclear-free zone in the South Pacific, to a collective approach to addressing the existential threat of climate change.
In 2017, in recognition of those considerations, the Pacific Forum leaders agreed to build on the Biketawa Declaration and other security-related declarations issued by the Forum as a foundation for future regional strategic responses, recognizing the importance of an expanded concept of security and regional cooperation in building resilience to disasters and climate change.
The leaders have also prioritized action on climate change and disaster-risk management, fisheries and ocean management and conservation, all of which have significant security elements.
As if being vulnerable to climate change were not a lifelong challenge, the label of Pacific small island developing State can also bring with it unintended trials and tribulations.


  
     471     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ZAF_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

That
 
responsibility is manifest in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development, among other agreements.


  
     472     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ZMB_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Zambia is dedicated to the implementation of Agenda 2063 of the African Union, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals, including on  climate  change, and of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the third International Conference on Financing for Development.


  
     473     
   
FILE: UNGA73_2018_ZWE_73_2018_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change poses a threat to all of humankind, and its impact respects no borders.
As a developing country,  Zimbabwe  seeks support in the areas of adaptation, mitigation, technology, finance and capacity-building, as envisaged in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     474     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_AFG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I congratulate you, Mr. President, on assuming the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy- fourth session, and we support the broad range of goals you are pursuing in the agenda of the General Assembly — advancing peace and security, enhancing equal education, eradicating poverty and addressing climate change.
The detrimental effects of climate change and the global humanitarian crisis are also priorities — ones that we face on a daily basis in Afghanistan.
With a predominantly agricultural economy, Afghanistan has felt the enormous adverse effects of climate change.
Climate change is an issue to which we are still struggling to find long-term solutions, while simultaneously providing immediate humanitarian relief to those affected.
Last week’s Climate Action Summit reaffirmed the urgency with which new measures are needed in order to mitigate the effects of this threat.
We will continue these important discussions in the upcoming Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will take place in Chile in December.


  
     475     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_AGO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is helplessly witnessing the effects of climate change and global warming, which have been worsening as confirmed by the latest scientific studies, as well as the rapid rise of natural hazards and their devastating consequences, such as the typhoons, cyclones, tsunamis, floods and even severe droughts that are proliferating around the world.
Those are the planet’s last reserves for oxygen renewal and also absorb carbon dioxide and other pollutants that deplete the ozone layer.


  
     476     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ALB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Many years after the end of history was announced and vast enthusiasm for globalism prevailed, we have been through the worst economic recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s, experienced a rise in violent extremism and terrorism that began on 11 September 2001, when Al-Qaida killed nearly 3,000 innocent people, and been exposed to climate change, whose effects are felt in the air we breathe in the twenty-first century.
We live under an ozone layer that is thinning and in a climate that is melting icebergs.
However, while that may be the case with earthquakes, it is certainly not the case with regard to climate change, whose destructive effects can be tackled in advance in a number of ways.
I am therefore pleased to be able to inform the Assembly that Albania has been working hard to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 45 per cent in the next decade and achieving net- zero emissions by 2050, in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In addition, we have adopted a national climate change strategy, a mitigation action plan for greenhouse-gas emissions and a national climate-change adaptation plan, making Albania the first and so far the only country in the Western Balkans with a consolidated strategy on climate change.
Those endeavours also serve as a reminder that climate action requires daily commitment.
Not only is that true of action on climate change, it is certainly also true of the other great concern that we all share in today’s world — security.


  
     477     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_AND_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to begin this address to the General Assembly at its seventy-fourth session by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as its President and by recognizing your wisdom in choosing the theme for this session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
Poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion are the four objectives that probably best address the challenges that the international community is currently facing.
Mass migrations and forced displacement are caused by extreme poverty and war; the consequences of global warming are felt with greater intensity in the poorest communities; the reach of digitization, which can be an opportunity to reduce inequalities and alleviate the lack of infrastructure in various parts of the world, varies greatly depending on the degree of development; and such persistent problems as violence, terrorism and violent extremism feed on poverty and marginality.
Action on climate is a multilateral action par excellence.
But while we can make significant progress in reducing inequalities or promoting education at the national level, it is utterly impossible to address the issue of climate change from a purely unilateral perspective, because the environmental policy of a single country, however ambitious it may be, is totally ineffective without action at on a global scale.
An example that I know well is that global warming is a direct threat to the delicate ecological balance of a high-mountain country such as Andorra.
I realize that implementing effective measures to combat climate change can be difficult and costly, especially for the major industrial Powers.
The world is urging us to act decisively and forcefully in the face of our climate emergency.
It seems to me that we are at a critical juncture, when the debates on the scientific evidence of climate change have ended and the discussion about who has a greater responsibility to act has been set aside.
We have a road map, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which was solemnly signed in this very Hall in April 2016.
Over the past two years, Andorra has begun to implement an ambitious plan to convert our development model into a sustainable one that contributes to limiting global warming.
In our country, the two main sources of carbon-dioxide emissions are transportation and heating.
Unlike poverty reduction, quality education or climate action, inclusion is not in itself a Sustainable Development Goal but rather a goal that cuts across the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     478     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ARG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the past few years, we have demonstrated a renewed and ambitious commitment in the fight against climate change and dedicated ourselves to sustainable development.
We are aware of the climate emergency, and we must act in accordance with the commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
That is why we have taken the decision to implement a plan for a long-term low-emission strategy that will enable us to take the necessary steps to achieve more ambitious targets, such as carbon neutrality by the year 2050.
That initiative is underpinned by the efforts that we are already making today, for example with regard to cleaner energy — particularly renewable energy — energy efficiency, the conservation of ecosystems, doubling the area of national parks, creating marine protected areas, caring for our forests and increasing our afforestation efforts, capturing carbon in our soil, promoting technologies for sustainable agriculture and good livestock practices and reducing emissions in the transport sector.


  
     479     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ARM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Having registered a 1.3°C average annual temperature increase, Armenia is already confronting the negative effects of climate change.
To address this global challenge, we have been working to develop an innovative climate-finance mechanism, which is part of Armenia’s national pledge for the United Nations Climate Action Summit.
Nagorno Karabakh should be able to benefit from international financial and technical assistance, so as to strengthen human rights, eradicate poverty, improve education, respond to climate change and build an inclusive society.


  
     480     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ATG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

It will surprise no one that climate change and its catastrophic consequences are foremost in my mind.
As the leader of a small island State, which, two years later, is still suffering the damaging consequences of Hurricane Irma, we know and live the terrible reality of climate change.
The consequences of climate change have become our annual Hiroshima.
We are simply the hapless victims of those Governments whose destructive climate policies are killing small island States, with brutal storm after brutal storm, each more destructive than the last.
The economies of Caribbean small island States are rooted in tourism and agriculture, which are sectors that are very dependent on stable climate conditions.
Despite all the targets set by climate-change conferences to limit global warming to 1.5°C over pre-industrial levels, every nation on this earth, and all the people within them, should understand that, even if that small level of ambition is achieved, these climate effects will continue for at least a thousand years.
The Assembly should take urgent and special note of the special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the impacts of global warming, entitled Global Warming of 1.5°C, and the recent Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate.
In small island States, we have come to the painful conclusion that 30 or more generations of our people will, year after year, suffer from conditions already created by the harmful greenhouse-gas emissions of a handful of countries.
We also fear that the necessary action to halt greenhouse-gas emissions might only come when a few countries and coastal communities are entirely washed away and eliminated from the face of the global map.
In fact, I congratulate all those who acted in solidarity on 20 September to warn our Governments to take bold action against climate change.
The protection of fossil-fuel economic interests at the expense of climate justice is unfair, unjust and unconscionable.
However, the number of refugees already created by climate change and the potential for greater numbers in future demand that the legal recognition of a refugee includes persons forced to seek refuge outside of their national borders.
In this regard, my Government proposes that Member States agree at this Assembly that the matter of climate refugees be taken up in all the appropriate committees to secure an agreed definition of the term “climate refugee”, which could be adopted in international law where it does not now exist.
My Government is perfectly aware that this proposal will be resisted by those Governments that deny climate change and are fearful of acknowledging its consequences.
But if this matter is left unaddressed by the United Nations, then it will certainly carry the indelible stain of guilt for the catastrophe that will befall us because we failed to act to establish a global framework to manage cross-border climate refugees.
The worst and immediate victims of climate change are small island States, where a history of human exploitation and neglect has left significant numbers of our population poor and without resources to build climate-resilient infrastructure and homes.
That is our inheritance but, eventually, climate change will make victims of people who live in the large land masses too, and not only their coastal areas but their hinterlands as well.
The only solution to the harmful effects of climate change is to stop the greenhouse-gas emissions.
And that is what the heavy users of fossil fuels must do.
They must lead by example to achieve a carbon-neutral world.
We are also actively making the transition into alternate energy with intended nationally determined contributions that will make our country carbon neutral by 2040.
It is compensation for the damage done to our countries, for the reversals in our economic gains and for the additional money we must spend to counter the further injurious effects of climate change, in which we play little part.
Further, despite our vulnerabilities as remote islands, confronted with high interest and insurance costs, unsustainable debt and frequent disasters arising from climate change, we are disqualified from access to concessional financing based on a single criterion — per capita income.
In addition, climate funding to adapt, mitigate and build resilience should not be subject to any conditionality, but be based exclusively on vulnerability and need.


  
     481     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_AUS_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Organization’s work, in partnership with Australia, has also helped to build a more sustainable and resilient Pacific, to support local climate change actions and resilience, to strive for gender equality through the empowerment of women and girls, to support continuing improvements in health outcomes and to bolster regional peace, including through the Bougainville Referendum Support Project.
To protect our oceans, Australia is committed to leading urgent action to combat the plastic pollution that is choking our oceans, to tackle overexploitation of our fisheries, to prevent ocean habitat destruction and, of course, to take action on climate change.
In 2015, Australia set up the International Partnership for Blue Carbon with the aim of protecting and conserving mangroves, tidal marshes and seagrasses for climate change mitigation and adaptation.
Australia is also taking real action on climate change and getting results.
However, Australia’s internal and global climate change critics willingly overlook or, perhaps, ignore our achievements because the facts simply do not fit the narrative they wish to project about our contribution.
Australia is responsible for just 1.3 per cent of global emissions.
Australia is doing its bit to combat climate change and it rejects any suggestion to the contrary.
By 2020, Australia will have surpassed its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 367 million tons more than is required to meet its 2020 Kyoto target.
Our latest estimates show that Australia’s emissions per capita and the emissions intensity of its economy are at their lowest levels in 29 years.
In 2012, it was estimated that Australia would release some 693 million tons of emissions in 2020.
Australia’s electricity sector is producing fewer emissions.
In the year to March 2019, emissions from Australia’s electricity sector were 15.7 per cent lower than the peak recorded in the year to June 2009.
Having met and on its way to exceeding its Kyoto targets, Australia will also meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change — and we stand by them.
We have committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 per cent below our 2005 levels by 2030.
That is a credible, fair, responsible and achievable contribution to global climate change action.
It represents a halving of emissions per capita in Australia or a two-thirds reduction in emissions per unit of gross domestic product.
At the centre of our domestic efforts is our $3.5-billion climate solutions package, which I campaigned on during our recent national election and successfully launched as Prime Minister.
It supports practical projects, such as capturing methane from waste and the revegetation of degraded land and soil carbon.
Through our climate solutions plan, we are supporting the transition to renewable energy with projects such as Snowy 2.0, the largest pumped hydro station in the southern hemisphere.
We recently committed to investing an additional 500 million Australian dollars over five years from 2020 for renewable energy, climate change and resilience in the Pacific region.
We have decided to invest that directly from within our international overseas development programme, rather than by making an additional budget contribution to the Green Climate Fund.
Australia is also committed, among other countries, to the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, an agreement that will help protect the world from ozone depletion and combat climate change.
Under the Montreal Protocol, Australia will further accelerate its efforts and will use 60 per cent fewer hydrochlorofluorocarbons than permitted.
We are reforming the rules of global governance, setting common standards to ensure global connectivity in a digital future, preventing conflict, building the capacities of developing nations, supporting essential health projects, protecting our oceans, taking action on climate change and achieving results.


  
     482     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_AUT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

And never have we been more acutely aware that we all face the same challenges — such challenges as climate change, migration, transnational crime and terrorism.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is no longer a global arrangement by all.
The first is climate change.
Our glaciers are melting away.
Climate change is truly a global challenge, which requires urgent global action.
As a member of the High Ambition Coalition, we are fully committed to the Paris Climate Agreement and we support the Secretary-General’s call for the swift implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 13 at this week’s Climate Action Summit.
In the coming years, Europe will work hard towards becoming the world’s first climate-neutral continent, which means net-zero greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050.


  
     483     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_AZE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The existential threat of climate change is becoming more real with every hurricane, wildfire and centimetre of sea-level rise.
Azerbaijan is highly sensitive to the effects of climate change and is already facing negative impacts, such as floods, droughts and heat waves.
My country is a party to major international agreements on climate action, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, its Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The Government has taken important steps to minimize carbon dioxide emissions and has pledged to reduce them by 35 per cent by 2030.


  
     484     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BDI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The great qualities and skills that we all recognize in him are undoubtedly a guarantee of the success of the work of this session, whose central theme “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” pragmatically deals with the key challenges facing the world today.
The world we live in today needs a consensual approach, now more than ever before, in order to confront such major challenges as climate change, terrorism, the peaceful settlement of conflicts, peacekeeping around the world, the reform of the Security Council, threats to multilateralism and the issue of migration.
In terms of climate, we reiterate that the planet on which we live and on which future generations will live is facing a climate crisis that is worsening day by day, with the dramatic rise of climate-sceptic leaders.
The climate crisis is threatening to reverse decades of progress and undermines all projects undertaken to build inclusive and sustainable development.


  
     485     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BEL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Building a rules based world, promoting dignity and universal values, surmounting the climate challenge and launching humankind on the path to sustainable development — those are the commitments that should bring us together.
Three global challenges are today testing humankind: climate change, sustainable development, and peace and security.
Our Secretary-General just a few days ago, in words as apt as urgent, perfectly expressed the urgent need to take action on the climate challenge.
The impact of climate change becomes more evident and destructive by the day.
In that regard, the vast majority of European States have committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2050.
I also welcome the Chilean initiative to achieve climate neutrality in keeping with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Climate change is having a structural impact on food security, migration and even stability in many countries.
But it is our responsibility not to fall into the fearful trap of catastrophism — the transition to carbon neutrality can and must offer positive opportunities for the development and improving our way of life.
My country, Belgium, together with its European partners, is determined to do its part in our global effort, all the more since the reduction of the climate threat must be achieved by strengthening our capacity to attain the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which constitute the keystone of personal dignity and our collective security.
Eradicating the climate threat, achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and working tirelessly for peace and security will require broad and unwavering determination.


  
     486     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BEN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this session invites us to galvanize multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion, which is a theme that summarizes the objectives we have set for ourselves for the next 12 months as part of our joint actions.
The Secretary-General encouraged us to approach our meeting on climate change on the basis of concrete engagement for future actions rather than negotiation and discussion.
“My Government is convinced of the seriousness of the current situation and has therefore developed and submitted an ambitious plan to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030.
Accordingly, in all energy and agriculture sectors, Benin plans to contribute to reducing cumulative greenhouse-gas emissions by 16.17 per cent between 2021 and 2030 by increasing our renewable-energy production capacity and through sustainable agricultural.
These climate-change adaptation measures have led to more than 13,000 farmers being trained in sustainable land management, over 92 per cent of whom have adopted sustainable practices.
In this context, the Government of my country is considering establishing an international research centre on climate-change-resilient agriculture.
By strengthening the resilience of production systems, soil protection and rehabilitation help with climate-change adaptation and lead to increased productivity and employment and reduced hunger and poverty, thereby resulting in significant positive synergies for fulfilling the 2030 Agenda.
“In order to leave no one behind, Benin has set up, under the third critical entry point, a human- capital development insurance scheme for the most vulnerable in the agricultural, trade, transport, crafts, art and culture sectors.
That is for us the key issue at the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly, which seeks to galvanize multilateralism, the only guarantee of success in the process of resolving our global challenges in the area of climate change, the fight against poverty and efforts to develop quality education.


  
     487     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BFA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year’s seventy-fourth session is being held under the theme “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
In view of all the achievements made by the United Nations in the areas of peacekeeping, security, justice, human rights, development and the fight against climate change, with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, it is imperative that we work to strengthen multilateralism and the role of the United Nations as a means of achieving common solutions to our planet’s problems.
Turning to the fight against climate change, I would first of all like to applaud yesterday’s Climate Action Summit, the format of which made it possible to put forward concrete proposals.
I would also like to commend the success of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification held in India just a few days ago, and to recall the clear link between desertification and climate change.
Climate change is causing population displacement in Burkina Faso and exacerbating conflicts between herders and farmers due to water shortages and the scarcity of arable and grazing land.
That is why, in the context of preventing and combating the impacts of climate change, my Government has taken important initiatives, including a five-year reforestation plan, a law to reduce the effects of disasters and humanitarian crises and a national plan for risk reduction and emergency preparedness for the period 2016 to 2020.
I urge States to allocate the resources freed up by disarmament to financing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), official development assistance and the Green Climate Fund.
Yesterday we held the Climate Action Summit and the High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage, and in the coming days we will hold high-level meetings on sustainable development and Financing for Development.


  
     488     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BGD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The President’s call to galvanize multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion could not have been more relevant.
The emphasis given to the specific Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion, are critically important for our civilization.
The global stand for taking climate action fostered by the Climate Action Summit, concluded just days ago, will translate into genuine impetus for the implementation of the Paris Agreement in the broader context of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
As a partner country in the Coalition for Climate Resilient Investment and the Global Commission on Adaptation, Bangladesh has advocated addressing the special challenges and vulnerabilities of countries such as our own and adopted transformative and innovative climate-resilient technology and crops to reduce disaster risks.
The Plan focuses on food security, water safety, climate change, environment sustainability, disaster management and sustained economic growth.


  
     489     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BGR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres, for convening the Climate Action Summit as a catalyst for collective political will to attain lower and, over time, climate-neutral levels of industrial greenhouse-gas emissions.
Bulgaria stands by its obligations under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
My country will spare no effort in transforming its economy in a way that will contribute to the common goal of keeping temperature rise to 1.5°C and reaching net-zero global emissions by 2050.


  
     490     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BHS_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the context of the global climate emergency, it is also my responsibility, as a citizen of a vulnerable State, to speak on behalf of the community of small island developing States (SIDS), the peoples of the Caribbean and the Caribbean Community, and the coastal and other communities around the world that are especially vulnerable to rising sea levels and increasingly powerful storms.
I commend Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for his extraordinary leadership in focusing the attention of the international community on the global climate emergency.
The naturally warm aquamarine and jade waters of the Bahamas, made even warmer by earth-warming carbon-gas emissions, were rapidly whipped up into action as instruments of death and destruction.
Global warming increases the severity and frequency of hurricanes for our archipelago and destroys our natural defences against such storms.
Coral and mangrove degradation, land erosion, increased tidal movements and a myriad other consequences of global warming increase our vulnerability and hinder our ability to develop and implement effective resilience measures.
We cannot make meaningful progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals if, as forecasters are predicting, recent cyclonic and other extreme climate events are poised to become the new norm and may worsen.
I therefore add my urgent plea to the cries and voices of many other leaders and citizens of the global commons for the nations of the world assembled in this Hall to treat the global climate emergency as the greatest challenge facing humankind.
The Bahamas fully supports the Secretary-General’s comprehensive strategy to address the global climate emergency — which will eventually devastate the entire planet — including his plea to international financial institutions to provide concessionary financing to countries severely affected by the external shocks occasioned by climate change.


  
     491     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BIH_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

For those reasons, we believe that the achievement of the SDGs should strongly and qualitatively contribute to the eradication of poverty, the reduction of world hunger, the protection of the environment and dealing with the evident climate change.


  
     492     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BLR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

There can be no doubt that issues related to peace and security, sustainable development and climate change are some of the most pressing currently on humankind’s agenda and it is they that are being discussed most actively in international forums.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that the capacities of individual or even groups of States are no longer sufficient to resolve these problems and save the world from disasters, whether military, economic or climatic.
Against the backdrop of the world’s ever-increasing population and the resulting growth in the exploitation of the Earth’s limited resources, we can see that the problem of climate change is becoming more acute.
The efforts of the international community to reduce emissions are so far clearly lagging behind the devastating processes of climate change.
The Climate Action Summit, which was recently held at the United Nations Headquarters, offers hope for consolidating the international community’s efforts and implementing meaningful initiatives to reduce emissions.
As a responsible participant in the collective efforts to combat climate change, Belarus intends to make an unconditional commitment to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by a minimum of 35 per cent of its 1990 levels by 2030 and will exclusively use its own resources to do so.
Launching an incentivizing mechanism for the transfer of advanced knowledge and technologies to developing countries, along with climate investments, would be a powerful driver for the transition to a low-carbon economy.


  
     493     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BLZ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

And in the remaining time allocated to me, I will set forth our vision of the leadership we need from the United Nations to confront three fundamental threats to our world — the runaway threat of climate change, the uphill struggle to achieve sustainable development in a rapidly changing world and the lingering threats to peace and security, both internationally and at home.
Indeed, Dorian joins a long list of extreme weather events indelibly etched in the minds of citizens living on small islands and low-lying coastal States the world over.
They are experiencing a climate crisis unfolding before their very eyes, impelling them to action and to assume leadership roles in the search for solutions to this crisis.
Learned scientists are advising us that the world has at best a decade to get on the path to 1.5°C in order to ensure planetary sustainability and, for small island developing States (SIDS), our very survival.
It is therefore urgent and imperative that we work to halve global emissions from their 2010 levels by 2030.
We must also ensure the phasing out of coal and the achievement of net- zero emissions by 2050.
The Climate Action Summit has laid bare the mammoth challenges we face.
My Government is combining incentives for climate and other sustainable development with benefits such as health, food security and youth empowerment.
We are introducing climate- smart agricultural practices, and we are applying nature-based solutions through integrated coastal-zone management and sustainable fishery practices that have mitigation, adaptation and development potential.
We in Belize believe that Governments must lead the way with the highest possible ambition, in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, especially the 1.5°C goal.
The private sector and other financial actors, including multilateral banks, must follow suit and pivot towards environmentally sound policies and climate-informed investments.
People must press their leaders unceasingly and must also do their part to attenuate the drivers of climate change.
That is especially worrying because climate change is shutting the window of opportunity for us.
Absurdly enough, that means that the most vulnerable countries, which bear no responsibility for the climate crises, are being taxed to access the support that we need to save ourselves.
We are small, we are islands and low-lying coastal States, and we are severely exposed.
We call for a SIDS-specific resilience fund and the endorsement of a debt-for-climate swap initiative to channel investments into much-needed adaptation initiatives and green industries.


  
     494     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BOL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Each year is hotter than the previous one, global melting is increasing and ocean levels are rising.
We have been warned that, if we follow this course of action, by the year 2100 the global temperature will have increased by 3° Celsius, with concomitant massive and devastating changes.
According to data from our Organization, the consequences of climate change will condemn millions of people to poverty, hunger, lack of drinking water, the loss of their homes, forced displacement, more refugee crises and new armed conflicts.


  
     495     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BRA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

With regard to issues such as climate, democracy, human rights, equal rights and duties of men and women and many others, all we need to do is to behold the truth: “And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.”


  
     496     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BRB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like other delegations, Barbados supports the very timely theme of this year’s session: “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
But while we have made good progress, our gains are being jeopardized by one main challenge that we all know only too well, that of climate change.
Denying the existence of climate change does not diminish its reality.
The world in which we live can no longer ignore the reality of climate change.
Last Friday, young people of the world across 150 countries chose to champion the cause of climate justice.
We saw that in South Africa, and we will see it now in the battle against climate change.
Will our small States survive this climate catastrophe before humankind finally finds the solution that can halt and reverse climate change?
We have been discussing the challenge of climate change for more than three decades, from the time when small island developing States first raised the global alarm in 1988.
I find it ironic that after our Climate Action Summit on Monday, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released another special report on oceans and the cryosphere stating that some of the more severe consequences of climate change can no longer be avoided.
Where is the constructive action by the countries responsible for carbon emissions that believe that it is okay to continue to build coal-power plants and not decommission them, and that do not understand that the world is providing us with prospects of new industries and new jobs while enabling us to save the world for our young people?
We continue to be confronted by the problems of blacklisting, which pale in significance when compared to climate change but which destroy our financial sector.
I suppose people feel that because we have talked so long about Belize and Guyana and Cuba, we can continue to talk about climate change and those other things and that it is okay for it to be just another check mark on a General Assembly speech.
Barbados welcomes the unique opportunity to work with others, our partners, to shape the trade and development agenda of the Organization for the next four years, conscious that if ever small island developing States needed to be at the centre of those discussions, it is now in order to discuss trade and climate, trade and the blue economy and sustainable development for our people.
We are committed to taking the action needed to overcome the deleterious effects of what threatens to destroy us — climate change.


  
     497     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BRN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am also deeply grateful to Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for his leadership and laudable initiatives that have given renewed impetus to our Organization, particularly in hosting the Climate Action Summit and the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) summit.
Today, we continue to honour this agenda through this session’s theme, which is focused on galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion.
The effects of climate change are being felt now and they will only get worse.
We are at a critical juncture and stand at the precipice of making significant changes so as to reverse the climate crisis and secure the right of future generations to live in a sustainable world.
We therefore believe that more needs to be done in sharing and transferring technology, so that we can all move from reactive responses to proactive solutions on climate change.


  
     498     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BTN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We plan to enhance the school curriculum with practical lessons on climate change so that every student becomes a climate champion.
With deepest appreciation and reverence to our visionary monarchs, I claim with pride that Bhutan is carbon-negative.
When climate change has become the greatest threat facing humankind today, is it not a wonder that a small country such as Bhutan had the foresight to take that path from early days?
We are also taking initiatives to replace fossil fuels with clean energy.
Today, as we prepare to graduate from LDC status, our last-mile challenges include eradicating poverty, addressing income inequality and ensuring that vulnerable segments of the population do not fall back into poverty due to climate-change hazards and natural disasters.


  
     499     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_BWA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Botswana fully endorses the theme of the seventy-fourth session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
In that regard, we applaud your commitment, Sir, to leveraging high-level meetings — such as the summits on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), climate action, universal health coverage and financing for development — to galvanize political commitment to urgently address the most pressing global challenges affecting our people and the planet.
Those challenges include youth unemployment, poverty, increasing social and economic inequalities, climate change and unsustainable patterns of consumption and production.
Climate change is indeed one of the greatest challenges we face today.
We therefore commend the Secretary-General for convening two summits on climate change at the present session of the Assembly, involving world leaders and the world’s youth.
They provided an opportunity for deliberations on climate change-related actions, addressing the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions and achieving the target of net-zero emissions by 2050.
The science is very clear: unless there is urgent action, climate change will reverse the many gains we have made in key sectors of our economy.
Botswana, like others African countries, is already experiencing the effects of climate change, including desertification, heat waves and recurrent droughts.
Botswana remains fully committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in which we have anchored our national development objectives.
In that regard, as part of our mitigation and adaptation drive, we have developed a climate change policy and strategy.
Furthermore, in our intended nationally determined contribution, Botswana has committed to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 15 per cent by 2030, based on the 2010 baseline.


  
     500     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CAF_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The seventy-fourth session is being held at a time when the world is faced with threats to international peace and security — terrorism, poverty, climate change and migration.
I have therefore come to share with the Assembly my country’s concerns and ideas about the theme “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
The abusive exploitation of natural resources is one of the causes of climate change, which is seriously disrupting and jeopardizing the future of humankind.
I firmly call for the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its ratification by all States parties.
We hope to see a significant reduction in the carbon emissions of developed countries and the fulfilment of financial commitments for carbon credits, in order to strengthen the resilience of developing countries against climate disasters.
Without contriving new lines of actions to take, our collective responsibility is to implement all our commitments, including the resolutions resulting from the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, as well as the recommendations made at the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Addis Ababa, which has afforded us the opportunity to reaffirm our support for the implementation of the sustainable development agenda.


  
     501     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CAN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Public policies and public resources, although absolutely essential, are insufficient to tackle challenges like climate change and inequality or to fully achieve sustainable development.
This high-level week began with youth from all over the world sounding the alarm over climate change and demanding urgent action, leadership and accountability.
At the Climate Action Summit, we heard that the power to change course lies in our hands.
Readily available solutions exist here and now, which, if pursued, could eliminate 70 per cent of global emissions.
Doing so is the key to achieving all of what we have set out to accomplish this week — from climate action and universal health care to the vision of the inclusive, people-centred sustainable prosperity that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development seeks to establish.
Canada’s second priority is to address climate change, together.
Climate change is the defining issue of our time, an existential threat like no other.
For that reason, we listened carefully to the views expressed during the open debate organized by the Dominican Republic under its recent presidency of the Security Council on addressing the impacts of climate-related disasters on international peace and security (see S/PV.8451).
Like most Member States, we, too, are convinced that climate change is a risk amplifier for security.
As a country bordering on three oceans, affected by climate change and with a longstanding tradition of contributing to solutions to non-traditional security challenges, Canada brings much to the table.


  
     502     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CHE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let me also mention the pressing issues at hand — combating hunger, meeting water and energy needs, providing training for all, fighting climate change and reducing armed conflict.
If we want to have enough food, drinking water and energy for all in future, if we want to successfully fight climate change, we do not need declarations of intent — we need technical innovations.


  
     503     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CHL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Every generation faces its own challenges but no generation has faced a challenge as urgent and formidable as that confronting us in climate change and global warming.
Our planet is over 4.5 billion years old, and during this long history, it has suffered and endured all kinds of phenomena — such as hurricanes, glaciations, warming, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, floods, asteroid strikes — and it survived them all.
In fact, the latest scientific report, United in Science, published just today, shows that the concentration of greenhouse gases and global temperature are the highest they have been in the past 800,000 years.
The last five years have been the hottest in recorded human history.
The report states that, even if we implemented the commitments made under the Paris Agreement, temperature would still significantly exceed the limit agreed, reaching an increase of almost 3.4 degrees, which is almost tantamount to disaster.
We need to multiple comprises by five to meet the target of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
Sea levels continue to rise by the day, as do the acidification and deoxygenation of their waters.
The 2015 session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP), held in Paris, set the goal of limiting maximum temperature increase to 2°C, later stepped up to 1.5°C by the end of the century.
This means that we must prevent climate change and global warming from becoming truly catastrophic.
Those future generations will also want to live on a healthy planet and they will, of course, judge us, and judge us harshly, for the way in which we responded to the monumental challenge of climate change.
That is why we agreed to host the COP in December.
First, it is aimed to get countries to make much more ambitious and enforceable commitments than they have to date to combat climate change.
Today, 66 countries, or one in three, have already committed to becoming carbon neutral, which means cutting net emissions of carbon and greenhouse gases to zero.
The Secretary-General tasked us some months ago with leading the coalition for climate mitigation so as to ensure that more countries, business and cities commit to carbon neutrality.
As I said at the Group of 20 Summit in Osaka, Japan, where six countries, including Chile, made this commitment, the movement is fast gaining momentum, with 66 countries, more than 100 cities and more than 100 major companies having committed to becoming carbon neutral.
Secondly, we also need to incorporate the protection and conservation of rainforests and their magnificent biodiversity and, of course, the incorporation not only of rain forests but where they grow, because when rainforests grow, they capture carbon and produce oxygen.
Oceans capture 50 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions and absorb more than 90 per cent of the temperature increases generated by us human beings.
The United in Science report details the degree of acidification and deoxygenation affecting our oceans and killing marine life.
Thirdly, it will fully involve regional, municipal and city Governments, non-governmental organizations, businesses, civil society and communities at large in the cause of fighting climate change.
Fourthly, it will put into practice some instruments that were agreed in Paris but are yet to be activated, such as carbon bond markets, to generate more resources for and improve the efficiency of the struggle to reduce carbon emissions.
This is why Chile is today announcing the launch of the Alliance for Climate Ambition, which will bring together States and cities, business and civil society on all these fronts.
Indeed, Chile committed a few months ago to becoming a carbon-neutral country.
We are implementing a plan to achieve that goal, based on four pillars: the complete decarbonization of our energy grid; the modernization of our public transport system, replacing fossil fuels entirely with electricity; energy efficiency in every sector; and an ambitious protection, conservation and reforestation programme for our forests.
We are pursuing all of this through a framework law on climate change, which identifies clear strategies, tools and timelines for upholding our commitment to carbon neutrality.
Today, when the world is most in need of leadership on issues such as climate change, global warming, free trade and integration, it seems unreasonable that the two great Powers, instead of uniting to lead us in effectively addressing those issues, should be fighting each other, resulting in a grave and dangerous leadership vacuum.


  
     504     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CHN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is global consensus on the need to address climate change, and cutting emissions calls for concerted global efforts.
The outcomes of the Climate Action Summit are positive.


  
     505     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CIV_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this year’s general debate, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, underlines the importance that every Member State should attach to multilateralism as a key tool for collectively addressing the major contemporary challenges.
Four years after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the challenges and issues remain the same — the persistence of hunger, malnutrition and poverty in the world; the increasingly worrisome impact of climate change; migration crises, with their socioeconomic effects on migrants’ countries of origin and destination; and exclusion of all kinds.
The effects of climate change are increasingly being felt in all regions of the world on a general scale, and in developing countries such as Cote d’Ivoire in particular.
The main consequences of the shifts brought about by climate change are drought, deforestation, coastal erosion, natural disasters, declining agricultural yields, the displacement of populations and the consequent abandonment of livelihoods.
Climate change threatens entire ecosystems that support food and nutritional systems for hundreds of millions of people, degrading the soil and thereby reducing the nutritional value of the food we grow.
In that context, it is more crucial than ever to ensure the effective and prompt implementation of the international commitments made at the meetings of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and to adopt a global pact for the environment in the near future.
For its part, Cote d’Ivoire will resolutely respect its climate commitments within the framework of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which was adopted in 2015.
To that end, our country has pledged to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 28 per cent by 2030, relying on the energy, transport, agriculture and waste-management sectors to do so.
In that context, the Government adopted its 2015 to 2020 national strategy to combat climate change — in order to include this particular theme in its sectoral policies.
Accordingly, both developed and emerging countries should be invited, within the limits of their responsibilities, to contribute further to mobilizing financial resources pursuant to the recommendations of the 2015 Paris Agreement.


  
     506     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CMR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In addition to all of these scourges, the preservation of our planet is threatened by natural disasters, some of which are caused by human activity, be it climate disruption, floods, drought, volcanoes and earthquakes or other landslides, and fires, which cause the most varied types of damage.
The foregoing shows the relevance of theme of the general debate of the seventy-fourth session, namely, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
We have launched ambitious programmes and projects aimed to fight poverty and climate change.
In terms of resilience and adaptation to climate change, Cameroon, which was among the first signatories to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, has set itself the goal of reducing carbon emissions to 32 per cent of current levels by 2035.
I am pleased to inform the General Assembly that my country has adopted a national climate-change adaptation plan.
Believing desertification to be one of the major consequences of climate change, Cameroon initiated, in 2008, the Green Sahel Reforestation Programme, which is aimed at restoring degraded land through such initiatives as an operation to plant thousands of trees in order to stop the desert from advancing.
As part of this national action plan, the National Observatory for the Fight against Climate Change in Cameroon is now operational.
The same stands for access to science, technology and innovation, for which wealthy countries must deliver on the promises made in the light of commitments entered into as part of the Paris Agreement.


  
     507     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_COD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of the current session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, has been well chosen at a particularly difficult time for multilateralism, when humankind has engaged itself with unprecedented momentum towards the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
That theme encompasses the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, the implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development and the achievement of the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     508     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_COG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which most of the speakers have mentioned, is in reality a lifeline for all of humankind.
Notwithstanding the scepticism of some among us, we can never overstate the importance of all the vital forces of our era and all actors of goodwill in the world standing shoulder to shoulder in the combat that is under way against the threat of climate change.


  
     509     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_COL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The greatest challenge facing all of us is climate change and, naturally, what it entails for our oceans, high-altitude ecosystems, known as paramos, snow-capped mountains, glaciers and coasts.
As I have said repeatedly throughout this week, Colombia produces only 0.4 per cent of all global greenhouse-gas emissions.
Colombia is also one of the most vulnerable countries to the effects of climate change.


  
     510     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_COM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The realities of climate change must be taken seriously, as regions could simply disappear due to the harmful effects of environmental degradation.
My country, the Union of the Comoros, is one of those small States that is exposed to climate threats and must therefore continue to address them.


  
     511     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CPV_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Pathway currently under way is an opportunity for us to step up actions that may help island nations to develop their economic competitiveness, promote social inclusion, foster resilience in their exposure to climate change and other extreme events, as well as access and judicious and sustainable financing.
We welcome the vision that Mr. Muhammad-Bande has brought us and the theme that has been proposed for our general debate, namely, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, without forgetting peace and security as essential conditions for those efforts to succeed.
Cabo Verde is implementing a water and energy transition strategy aimed at reducing reliance on rainwater and fossil fuels, and improving people’s economic capacity to access water and energy.
We are implementing an energy transition strategy in order to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels.
We are the first
African country to join the Transport Decarbonisation Alliance.
As part of our energy transition strategy, we intend to gradually replace all internal combustion vehicles with electric vehicles by 2050.
That is our modest contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in transportation.
Time is short and we need concrete action to reverse the direction and breadth of climate change.


  
     512     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CRI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In our discussions over the past few days during the Climate Action Summit, we have discussed the urgent implementation of global mechanisms to address our current challenges, and we have analysed the positive results we have had where we have been able to implement innovative ideas.
We are capable of agreeing on coordinating our actions and contributions for the common cause, as was achieved in the founding Charter of the United Nations, the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
No home is more shared than the planet we inhabit and no cause is more global than the fight against the climate crisis.
We are honoured that the international community has entrusted Costa Rica with organizing the preparatory meeting for the twenty-fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which we are hosting between 8 and 10 October, in preparation for the twenty-fifth Conference of the Parties, to be held in December by our brother country Chile.
In February, in our resolve to do our part, we launched a national decarbonization plan for Costa Rica to achieve a modern, green, digital, resilient and inclusive economy free from the use of fossil fuels by 2050, in line with our ambitious environmental goals, taking the disruptive approach that has been characteristic of our country.
In the same way that we have shown that it is possible to achieve 99 per cent clean and renewable electricity and to reverse deforestation processes, going from 20 per cent forest cover in the 1980s to what is now more than 50 per cent, we are working towards the goals of decarbonization, biodiversity conservation and the implementation of nature-based solutions.
The effects of the climate crisis, inequality, poverty and, in many cases, violence drive migratory flows of millions of people around the world that represent a challenge for the international community.
Less spending on weapons and accumulation and more investment in fighting poverty, inequality and climate change is the smartest thing that the world can do today.


  
     513     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CUB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, some of whose effects are now irreversible, is a threat to the survival of the entire world, particularly the small island developing States.


  
     514     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CYP_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I consider the chosen theme for this year’s General Assembly to be particularly pertinent, given that the combination of poverty, lack of adequate educational opportunities, social and economic exclusion and climate change constitute the most serious problems facing billions of human beings around the world — human beings who are placing their hopes in the international community to undertake efficient and effective measures, human beings who do not wish to be recipients of mere verbal support or wishful thinking that will expire at the end of the session.
At the same time, we must also realize that we are at a defining moment with regard to climate change.
I was particularly touched by the massive presence of young people at the Climate Action Summit and by their sincere calls of worry and concern about the effects of climate change.
I was deeply affected in particular by the words of 16-year-old Greta Thunberg, who stated that the eyes of all future generations are upon us.
Imagine how climate change will affect our world if we do not decisively act today.
Record-high temperatures and protracted heat waves, devastating fires and deforestation, melting ice and sea-level rise, droughts, floods and extreme weather phenomena attest to the dire situation we are facing.
Taking into account the particularly alarming projections concerning the impact of climate change on our immediate region, namely, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East, Cyprus has recently undertaken an initiative to coordinate regional climate-change actions.
I did not, however, neglect or overlook the vast importance of global challenges, particularly poverty, climate change and sustainable development.


  
     515     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_CZE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We all realize that in the near future the consequences of climate change may affect our countries more than ever before.
Like all EU countries, the Czech Republic fully supports the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we will fulfil our commitments.
We are significantly reducing our greenhouse-gas emissions and this year, for example, we hosted the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting in Prague for the first time and adopted the Prague Declaration, which emphasizes scientific cooperation for a better understanding of how climate change works and how we can deal with it.
The Czech Republic is also fully committed to the quest for a long-term strategy for achieving carbon neutrality.
As a whole, the European Union is ready to substantially change its economy to achieve carbon neutrality, but it cannot solve that burning issue without the help of the rest of the world.
Europe cannot remain alone as the most ambitious actor in its struggle to adapt its economies to imminent climate change.
Those who contribute the most to the environmental pollution that leads to climate change must find the political courage to participate in the solution.
The main economic models for the European Union’s plans to reduce emissions by 80 per cent by 2050 estimate the average annual cost to be at least $1.4 trillion.
The cost of significant emission reductions is extremely high because we are dependent on fossil- fuel alternatives such as solar and wind energy, which are generally not efficient enough.
The world is failing to tackle climate change.
But their approach, which emphasizes even greater commitments to reduce carbon emissions, will also fail, because green energy is still not ready.
The world should invest more in green- energy research and development so that the price of renewables falls below that of fossil fuels and naturally encourages an energy transition.
We must also be open-minded in looking into other zero-carbon sources such as nuclear energy.
Climate change is a popular topic around the world these days, and the arguments are correct in many ways.
We should keep in mind that while Europe decreased its carbon-dioxide emissions by 20 million tons in 2018 and Europe’s share of global carbon-dioxide emissions is only 9 per cent, the rest of the world increased its carbon-dioxide emissions by a factor of 52, to 1.02 billion tons.
Recent analysis has shown that only a few of the 185 States that ratified the Paris Agreement in 2015 are actually fulfilling their commitments.
Our citizens also expect us to provide them with productive and sustainable jobs that they will not lose due to decreased competitiveness, which will occur if our countries adopt tougher, more ambitious measures to combat climate change than the rest of the world does.
After all, we cannot ignore the fact that in many cases, reducing emissions simply means exporting jobs to other countries.
Adapting to climate change and working on mitigating its negative effects is the main task ahead of all of us.


  
     516     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_DEU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Here in New York over the past few days, we have all heard a great many speeches — at the Climate Action Summit, the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, the countless side events, and of course here at the speech-making marathon known as the general debate.
While we here in New York are talking about sustainability, we risk losing the race against climate change.
That is why we put climate and security on the agenda at the very beginning of our term and will ensure that it remains there.
Climate change has long ceased to be merely an ecological challenge for humankind.
Climate change is no less than a question of humankind’s survival.
If people no longer have access to clean drinking water, if entire harvests are ruined by persistent drought and conflicts break out over the few remaining resources, the wars of the future will be climate wars.
Climate protection must therefore become an imperative in a sustainable foreign policy.
Only if we work together will we find answers to globalization, the digital revolution, migration and human-induced climate change.
Tomorrow, more than 50 of my colleagues will be meeting here in New York to agree on concrete steps to strengthen international law and human rights and to discuss disarmament, crisis prevention, peacebuilding and global issues for the future, such as cybertechnology and climate change.


  
     517     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_DJI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is only collectively that we can find solutions to the global challenges of poverty, inequality and climate change.
Climate change is the most threatening and serious challenge of our time.
The extensive discussions that were held at the Climate Action Summit made it possible to identify the concrete actions to be taken.


  
     518     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_DMA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Two years ago, when Dominica lay in ruins after being ravaged by Maria, our Prime Minister, Mr. Roosevelt Skerrit, stood at this rostrum a mere five days later to address the Assembly and indicated his resolve to set Dominica on a path to becoming the first climate-resilient nation in the world.
Our Climate Resilience Recovery Plan is nearing completion, our new implementing agency is fully operational and the work of building resilience has begun.
We urge those who have pledged to support us in creating this new, climate-resilient nation to deliver.
That chapter speaks to the catastrophic effects of climate change, and as we are deliberating this week, many countries are reeling from its devastating effects.
For many island States, and particularly the smallest, the message being sent is that rising sea levels, violent tropical storms and hurricanes, periods of severe drought alternating with floods and forest fires, new plant diseases, and vector-borne diseases such as chikungunya and Zika present an existential threat.
Competent scientific authorities are now advising that the rate of global warming is progressing faster than was originally believed.
The effects of climate change are cross-cutting, affecting every sector and every facet of life on earth.
Despite the commitments they have made to take action to slow the rate of global warming, too many countries continue to pursue the same policies that are contributing to nature’s angry response to our overindulgence and reckless exploitation of our planet’s resources.
As experts predicted, such tropical storms are becoming more frequent and more intense, and sea temperatures are rising.
It is not only on small island States, however, that climate change is having an impact.
Soon the phenomenon of climate refugees will also be a new norm.
Dominica reaffirms its commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and once again pleads for the resources pledged to be released, so that we can implement actions designed to reduce risks and mitigate the impacts of climate change.
We applaud the leadership shown by the Government of the United Kingdom in assisting countries such as Dominica in building greater resilience to the effects of climate change.
We thank the nations that have recently committed to doubling their pledges and increasing contributions to the Green Climate Fund, as well as to making further resources available to small island developing States to help us adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change.
In pursuit of its vision of becoming the world’s first climate-resilient nation, we have prepared a national resilience development strategy, which is a broad framework providing a road map and guidelines to enable Dominica to reach climate resilience by 2030.
To help us to overcome that potential challenge, in 2018 the Government established an execution agency to enable Dominica to develop its Climate Resilience Recovery Plan, coordinate reconstruction work and facilitate the smooth and efficient implementation of projects.
Dominica is by any measure an insignificant contributor to greenhouse-gas emissions.
Notwithstanding that, we believe our actions must match the spirit of the climate conventions we have signed.
We have therefore developed a low-carbon, climate-resilient development strategy that emphasizes the development and use of renewable energy both to fuel our development and as a means of earning export revenue.
Following extensive geothermal exploration, it was confirmed in 2012 that the reservoir in the Roseau Valley, the subject of exploration, had a potential of 120 megawatts, which would not only satisfy domestic needs but could potentially produce electricity for export to the neighbouring French islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe, thereby reducing their carbon footprint as well.


  
     519     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_DNK_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In today’s world I believe we need both new ideas and big ambitions if we are to solve the issues facing us, including climate change, delivering on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and ensuring fair globalization.
The SDGs and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change serve as our common point of departure.
Getting the climate under control can no longer be the problem of the next generation or even the next Government.
Denmark has set one of the most ambitious climate targets in the world, a 70 per cent reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality with net-zero emissions by 2050 at the latest.
But Denmark is determined to be a leader in the fight against climate change.
Denmark would like to thank the Secretary-General for hosting the Climate Action Summit.
Energy accounts for roughly 80 per cent of global carbon-dioxide emissions.
We need to electrify the industries that today rely on fossil fuels.
We must leave no one behind on our path to a carbon-neutral world, at peace with the planet.
Nor can we address climate change effectively without protecting the natural environment.
Deforestation and forest fires in the Amazon and across the planet are global climate crises and must be addressed as such.
At the Climate Action Summit, we were proud to announce that Danish pension funds are also taking action, committing the Danish people’s hard-earned savings to significant new international green-energy investments.
We also announced our intention to double our support to the Green Climate Fund.
With the aim of creating carbon-neutral vessels as early as 2030, the Coalition is bringing together the entire value chain.
To quote a young Danish delegate who attended the Youth Climate Summit last Saturday, “We want you to hear us when we say we want to be part of the solution.
We know our climate is threatened, we know what needs to be done.
But we also know that none of us can make the needed changes on our own.”
Let us show the hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, of young people who have taken to the streets recently to protest for climate action that we are listening.
In order to continue to be the place for solving the global issues of our times, the United Nations — all of us, that is — must deliver on climate action, sustainable development, human rights and peace and security.


  
     520     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_DOM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

As part of that work, at the beginning of the year, when we assumed the presidency, we organized an open debate on the impacts of climate-related disasters and their negative effects on international peace and security (see S/PV.8451).
It should be noted that for us and our Caribbean region, the effects of climate change are real, visible and devastating, and threaten the very existence of our countries.
In that regard, we are encouraged by the fact that Secretary-General Antonio Guterres convened the Climate Action Summit to address climate action within the broader framework of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which we were very honoured to attend.
We agree with him that climate change is the defining issue of our time and a direct existential threat.
We trust that the Dominican Republic will continue to advance, alongside our brother countries of the region, in order to overcome the great and urgent challenges that lie ahead, such as climate change.


  
     521     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_DZA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Poverty eradication, quality education, climate change and inclusion are all issues that will be discussed this year.
Development can be sustainable if policies are aligned with efforts to safeguard the planet and address climate change, which continues to have a large impact on our ecosystems and biodiversity and causes increasingly severe natural disasters.
Although it emits the lowest proportion per continent of greenhouse gases in the world, Africa remains among the least prepared to confront the negative effects of climate change.
It is the responsibility of industrialized countries to settle their climate debt by providing adequate financial and technical assistance adapted to the needs of the least polluting countries in order to eliminate the environmental disparities between developed and developing countries.


  
     522     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ECU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

It shows how cooperation can be consolidated across borders and regions, that the peaceful settlement of disputes is always on the table — an alternative to the horrors of the violence of war — and that human beings must jointly respond to the problems of our time, that is, sustainable development, climate change, the protection and conservation of nature, the building of non-discriminatory and fully inclusive societies, dialogue among cultures and differing opinions.
I therefore call on all States to meet and address those urgent challenges, which are worth repeating and expanding on — climate change, sustainable development, protracted humanitarian crises, large-scale human rights abuses, widespread poverty, growing inequalities and threats to international peace and security, to name a few.
Climate change, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the pollution of oceans, the erosion of human rights, restrictions on world trade and the marginal importance of fair trade are issues that we all face and cannot be adequately resolved without the contribution and political will of all countries.
Such conflicts are caused by both man and natural disasters, which are increasingly destructive, due to the harmful effects of global warming.


  
     523     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ERI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Eritrea’s soil and water conservation strategy to mitigate the effects of climate change and achieve food security include building small, medium and large dams across the country and terracing its mountainous topography.


  
     524     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ESP_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

These are clear examples of the magnitude of the global challenges that we face today: the climate emergency, hunger, migratory pressure, the technological and digital revolution, social and gender inequality and hate speech, which is so prevalent today.
First, it is abundantly clear to me, as the President of the Government of Spain, that the most urgent challenges are precisely those faced by the protagonists of the stories I have just told the Assembly: hunger, the climate emergency, the digital revolution, economic and social inequality, gender inequality, access for the disabled, the violence of war and, without a doubt, discrimination.
That is why we signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with its 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
The Paris Climate Agreement and 2030 Agenda, inter alia, contain the diagnosis, the objectives and the road map.
It has been said from this very rostrum — we are facing a climate emergency that will not brook any kind of excuses.
Let us act now to respond to the climate emergency and let us do so from a multilateralist point of view.
Spain is making a great effort to be part of the group of countries driving the climate agenda.
We have set out to decarbonize our economy by 2050 in a socially just, supportive and efficient manner, without leaving anyone behind.
To this end, we have approved and presented an ambitious strategic framework for energy and climate.
We set ourselves the challenge of climate change as a great opportunity — and not as a great threat — to transform our economic model, modernize our labour market, create quality employment, gain in energy security and innovation, improve citizens’ health and position our country, Spain, at the forefront of the technologies that will dominate the next century.
The climate emergency also requires the mobilization of financial resources at all levels.
For this reason, I announced at the Climate Action Summit on Monday that Spain will contribute €150 million to the Green Climate Fund over the next four years.
We will also ratify the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal, and we will contribute €2 million to the Adaptation Fund.
It was not an edited photo; the temperature of the waters in that area has risen by five degrees in just one year.
We already have examples of good practices that I would like to champion: for example, decades-long joint efforts under the Montreal Protocol are bearing fruit — they have been effective — and we are regenerating our ozone layer.
The climate emergency is the great threat of our age, but we have alternatives.
Global warming affects the livelihoods of the countries of the South and also provokes migratory movements towards the North.
It is the only tool that offers a solution to the challenges we have listed — hunger, the climate emergency, the digital revolution, economic and social inequality, gender inequality, the violence of war and discrimination.
I hope that, thanks to the response we decide on today to address the climate emergency, the soil of their native lands will again become fertile so that no one else is forced to leave ever again.


  
     525     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_EST_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We care about nations facing extinction through a slow weapon of mass destruction — the climate catastrophe.
We care about nations facing famine and famine-induced disturbances due to climate change.
Encouraged by this, the Estonian start-up sector underwrote a memorandum with global ambitions, promising to be climate neutral in all their actions by 2030.
Estonia’s pledge to become climate neutral is open to all start-ups and other green-minded companies ready to support grass-roots movements to save our planet.
That allows us politicians to set aside resources for stopping climate change, which will inevitably reach and probably exceed 1 per cent of the global gross domestic product.
We welcome the first global Climate Action Summit as a sign that the United Nations is ready for this challenge.
Climate change remains the greatest existential challenge that the world is facing.
In this light, it is disturbing to note that we still keep subsidizing, to the tune of trillions of dollars, its source — the fossil fuel industry.
The destructive force of climate change is not evenly distributed around the world.
Arctic permafrost is melting decades earlier than even worst-case scenarios had predicted, threatening to unlock vast amounts of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas.
Many people in small island developing States live in constant fear of inundation by rising seas.
Security issues related to climate change are addressed further by the Group of Friends on Climate and Security, in which Estonia participates.
Science tells us that climate change is happening and imminent, and it also indicates the best practices to tackle it.
There is a common perception that replacing fossil fuels with biomass is carbon-neutral, whereas science has told us that this is not entirely correct.
Renewable energy is not necessarily carbon-neutral.
In fact, burning wood can actually increase carbon dioxide emissions and would make it even harder for us to reach climate-neutrality goals by mid-century.
Instead, it is more efficient to use wood for making products, which is not only carbon-neutral but carbon-positive, as such products store carbon for their entire lifetime.
Climate change and environmental degradation is an area where we need to share collective responsibility.
It was back in 1987, when we agreed to protect the ozone layer by phasing out numerous substances that were responsible for its depletion.
As a result, the ozone hole in Antarctica has been slowly healing.
The reality is simple; this global, interlinked and globally warming world cannot survive unless our goodwill and positive actions go beyond the artificial limitations created by the various fragmentations of global society, which from the viewpoint of humankind as a whole are artificial — fragmentations that have dogged us and keep dogging us.


  
     526     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ETH_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is real and poses a real threat to progress, and even to our survival, forcing us to shift resources away from development.
My country, with more than 100 million people, is perpetually affected by climate-induced drought.
That is why Ethiopia has agreed to co-lead the energy transition workstream for the Climate Action Summit.
We are fully committed to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     527     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_EU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Microplastics are spreading in our oceans.
We are fast approaching a point beyond which we will be able only to mitigate climate change rather than reverse it.
Europe is showing leadership in implementing the Paris Agreement, and we hope to win the race to become the world’s first carbon-neutral continent.
In 2017 alone, the EU and its member States spent f€20 billion helping developing countries tackle and adapt to climate change.


  
     528     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_FIN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Crucial questions concerning that trust are at the heart of two major summits here in New York this week — one on sustainable development in general and another on climate action in particular.
And yet, despite our joint commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement, the results are far too meagre.
For yesterday’s Climate Action Summit, the Secretary-General asked us to come with a plan, not with a speech.
Still, Goal 13, “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts”, stands out as the most urgent.
The rapidly growing impact of climate change also makes achieving the other SDGs more difficult.
The scientific evidence on climate change has long been clear, but it is no longer just a question for the future.
Climate change is already here in the form of melting glaciers, large-scale forest fires and extreme weather events across the globe from the Arctic to the Amazon.
Even if we were able to end all of our carbon dioxide emissions tomorrow, we would have to live for decades to come with the climate change we have already caused.
We are no longer able to completely avoid the climate crisis.
We all have to accelerate our efforts, reduce our emissions and increase our carbon sinks.
The climate crisis calls for leaders, not just followers.
As for Finland, we have recently set ourselves new climate targets.
The Finnish Government is committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2035 and to be carbon negative soon after that.
We have already decided to ban the use of coal for energy by 2029 and we will stop using fossil fuel for heating by 2030.
Finland and Chile are co-chairing the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action, while the Helsinki principles of the Coalition are driving the systematic change we need with concrete deeds and the powerful tools of finance ministers — taxation and budgeting, public investment and procurement.
When those instruments work for climate action, the prospects for a carbon-neutral world are much better.


  
     529     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_FJI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

A few hours ago, the world’s leading climate scientists, through the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), issued a report that adds a new dimension of horror to the world that our children and grandchildren will inherit.
They warn that global warming is turning our seas into a huge potential threat to humankind, reporting that global average sea levels could rise by up to 1.1 metres by 2100, in the worst-case warming scenario.
This is a rise of 10 centimetres over previous IPCC projections because of the larger ice loss now happening in Antarctica.
That is heart-breaking news for tens of thousands of Fijians in our coastal areas and all people in low-lying areas around the world.
It adds considerable urgency to the mission of Fiji’s Climate Relocation and Displaced Peoples Trust Fund for Communities and Infrastructure, which I launched Monday night here in New York.
I would tell anyone living in denial of the climate emergency, some of whom sit at the apex of certain Governments the following, that if they readily listen to scientists and take heed of the best research available in every other field of human endeavour, they should not refuse to listen to scientists of climate change.
One of our youngest climate warriors — Timoci Naulusala — makes the case far better than I ever could.
Defeat is not an option, so I would again ask those who did not come to New York this week with fresh plans to tackle the climate crisis or who came merely out of curiosity to observe to please examine the evidence and the facts and, for the sake of our children and grandchildren, face up to their responsibility to lead.
To stave off catastrophe, there is no alternative but to commit to net zero carbon emissions by 2050.
There is no alternative but to cap the average global temperature at 1.5°C above the pre-industrial age — and preferably even lower — because even at 1°C warming entire species are being made extinct and our coral reefs are dying.
There is no alternative but to rapidly scale down the use of fossil fuels and rapidly scale up the development of renewable energy.
And there is no alternative but to rapidly phase out the use of coal.
No more coal-powered electricity.
Unless we stop burning coal, we have no hope of achieving net zero emissions in 31 years’ time.
We must put oceans at the heart of the process of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change at the twenty-fifth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 25), or Blue COP, in Chile in December, because we cannot have a stable climate without a healthy ocean.
My message to my own people, and especially young Fijians, is that I hear them and that their nation and Government are doing everything they can to get the world to confront the climate threat.
We assumed the presidency of COP 23 not for prestige, but to play our part in ensuring their survival and everything we hold dear, not only our precious surroundings, but our culture and traditions, in order protect the dreams and aspirations that every Fijian has for him or herself and the hopes they all have for their children.
We will continue to be a voice for more climate ambition and further climate action.
We will continue to advance our case in the great forums of the world, on behalf not only of Fijians and other Pacific islanders, but of the climate-vulnerable everywhere.
This week, Fiji answered the call of the Secretary-General to come to New York with increased ambition to reduce our own emissions.
They amount to only 0.04 per cent of total global emissions, but we will be submitting our revised nationally determined contribution next year, which will include a commitment to achieving net zero emissions by 2050.
COP 23 was not the first time that Fiji demonstrated leadership in the world.
With the assistance of our development partner, Australia, we are establishing a new training centre in Fiji for our peacekeeping activities and to provide a rapid response to climate-induced disasters in our region.
While conflict zones in particular feel the stress of climate impacts, our peacekeepers will be even better prepared to assist affected communities.
In the climate fight, we have launched a host of initiatives to serve our people, the region and the world.
We are working to access adequate and affordable finance from public and private sources for climate adaptation.
For me, personally, one of our most exciting initiatives is to preserve and plant more of our forests and mangroves and to monetize these through carbon-trading arrangements in the international marketplace.
In addition to reducing our own carbon footprint as an important component of our revised nationally determined contribution, we want to fire the imaginations of our people and encourage them to protect our trees, our mangroves and our coral, too.
Fiji is also becoming one of the first countries to enshrine our implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and other strands of our climate campaign in a new national law.
The Climate Change Act gives us the legal tool we need to place climate action and ambition at the centre of national life.
When it is enacted by our Parliament within the next few months, the decisions of the Government and the private sector will have to factor in climate change and other laws will be amended to fall into line with the Act.
It is ground-breaking and something other countries can emulate — state-of- the-art nationally determined contribution enhancement, guided by a long-term vision and backed by force of law that reinforces Fiji as a global leader in the climate fight.
However dire the climate threat may be, our people can rely on my Government to do everything we possibly can to protect them, especially in times of crisis.
Fiji’s willingness to give time and energy to answering critical global calls to action, whether in peacekeeping, addressing climate change or preserving our oceans, has earned us unprecedented respect.
But all of that progress remains at risk if the world does not heed the voices of our young and summon the collective will to confront the climate threat.


  
     530     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_FRA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are not meeting our own expectations — the objectives that we have set for ourselves — in the fight against global warming and in the fight for biodiversity.
Never before in the history of the world has science been brought together in such a way as to be able to describe the challenges we face and provide the means to address them, from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, to the point where we are building upon technological revolutions.
I believe that we achieved that on the issue of climate when, after the American decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we launched the One Planet Summit, together with the United Nations and the World Bank, which allowed us to maintain cohesion and engage new actors, investors and companies, as we saw again yesterday at the summit organized by the United Nations.
In that regard, Russia’s ratification of the Paris Agreement, announced yesterday, is a sign of the success of that approach, in addition to what we have been able to undertake on many coalition issues.
When we talk about contemporary common goods, the climate, education and inequalities, we can say that we understand and see things for what they are.
We are no longer capable of solving abject poverty and new forms of inequality, such as inequalities of opportunity and gender, as well as in access to education in the poorest regions, access to health care and necessary treatments, and climate, when it comes to the most vulnerable countries or the poorest regions that are hit even harder by global warming or the increasing scarcity of biodiversity.
Essentially, there is an ongoing paradox in climate matters, to which we are collectively being inured.
I welcome the commitment of the Secretary- General and say that, in the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss, we must undertake even stronger action and fundamentally change our collective Organization, the system itself, and seek not to offset, but rather to correct and change it ourselves with all our investors, companies and societies.
That is crucial if we are to have a chance at limiting the rise in temperatures to below 2°C by the end of the century.
In Europe, we must make the necessary decisions in 2020 in that regard, particularly on carbon taxation, with a real, higher minimum price and border taxation.
We need to engage all countries more broadly in a carbon neutrality strategy by 2050.
I am aware of China’s proactive approach to climate change, which has been so important in recent years.
I know that together, if we commit to carbon neutrality, we can make a significant difference in achieving our objectives.
As such, the twenty-fifth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Chile, and the twenty-sixth session, to be held in Europe, will be defining events.
We continue to this day to export financing and projects in various countries financed by developed countries, which consist of launching new polluting structures and telling developing countries, the poorest countries, in not so many words that climate change is not for them.
In the same way, we must build a climate fund commensurate with these ambitions.
In a few weeks, the first Green Climate Fund pledging conference will take place in Paris and I call on our major partners on this issue to provide crucial financing.
On the matter of coherence, as I said yesterday, we can no longer have open, free-trade commercial strategies that do not include the climate question in their own agendas.
I believe in openness and free trade, but only to the extent that they are well thought out and able to integrate the objectives of zero carbon and zero deforestation.
But if we are not collectively responsible and transparent and if we do not accept the fact that we must practice what we preach when it comes to our commercial policies and climate agendas, we will never achieve it.
There are two climate-related topics that I wish to underscore here before concluding.
If we want to succeed in the war on climate change, we must look to save our forests and our oceans.
These two battles are essential to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and preserve our biodiversity balance.
By the time the United Nations Climate Change Conference takes place in Santiago, we will have met extremely effective and pragmatic criteria so as to invest more closely on the ground and find useful solutions to promote reforestation, biodiversity and agroecology protection and all economic development projects concerning Amazonia and the African forest in the Congo basin.
This will promote economic development and forest preservation, and thus our fight for biodiversity and against global warming.
When it comes to our oceans, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report Global Warming of 1.5°C is utterly devastating.
I do not believe that the right response to growing contemporary inequalities in the areas of climate, opportunities and education lies in the fiscal agenda of each individual country.
Rather, we must help them to change and we must offer solutions through technological innovation, investment and a real agenda to fight social and climate-related inequalities.
We know that when it comes to security, inequality, health and climate change, we will all be accountable.


  
     531     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_FSM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also thank Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for his pivotal role in galvanizing the world to fight climate change and in addressing the challenges of our global community.
As we all know, 22 years have passed since the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol and four since the adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
For us, climate change and its far-reaching effects and threats to the future of small island developing States are intolerable.
Those of us who are from low-lying atolls and coastal areas across the Pacific are living the reality of climate change.
The chorus of appeals and pleas from this rostrum, particularly from leaders from small island developing States, demonstrates the extent to which our peoples, on the front lines of climate change, are alarmed by its impact on our planet and on the fate of our present and future generations.
Climate change is real, and we must all take the necessary action to ensure our survival.
As Micronesia is addressing the existential threat of climate change, we want to point out that it is impossible to tackle it without protecting the ocean, the world’s largest carbon sink.
We have partnered with the Blue Prosperity Coalition to create a comprehensive, climate-smart marine spatial plan for our exclusive economic zone.
A few years ago, Micronesia enacted a national law that made it mandatory for all sectors in the national Government to mainstream climate change in all their policies and action plans.
That ongoing mainstreaming effort is a first for Pacific island countries and underscores our commitment to addressing climate change in all its aspects.
Additionally, it was Micronesia that championed the negotiation and adoption of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer to phase down the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons.
Scientists tell us that implementation of the Amendment could lead preventing as much as .5°C of global warming, which is crucial in the light of the recent findings in Global Warming of 1.5° C, the special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
The Amendment entered into force in January, and we encourage the international community to put that crucial component of the fight against climate change into action.
Moreover, through State legislation we are putting in place a ban on most forms of plastic, thereby reducing our carbon footprint, with a proposed national bill aimed at banning imported plastics on a country-wide scale.
Micronesia is also in the process of updating its nationally determined contribution to greenhouse-gas reduction for submission next year.
I urge the United Nations system, including, and perhaps most importantly, the Security Council, to step up to address climate change as an integral part of its work.
The Council must transcend its traditional mandates and address the security implications of climate change, which is the single greatest security issue facing the world at present, and it affects each and every one of us.
We are presently in a war against climate change, and it is a war that humankind can win if we first acknowledge the existential threat it poses and if the Security Council treats it as such, because it is in fact a security threat.
We must be radical in combating climate change.
It may be very difficult for us, and very painful to make the transition from one lifestyle to another, but we owe it to our future generations across the globe — those who are protesting outside on our streets, the young people who joined the Secretary-General during the Climate Action Summit and all people who depend on us to genuinely and legitimately speak for them — to do what must be done.
A recent United States Department of Defense report stated that the effects of climate change are a national security issue with potential effects on the Department’s missions, operational plans and installations.
While the United States, Australia and Japan collectively provide for the overall peace, safety and freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific region, there is no greater security issue for our Blue Pacific continent than climate change.
No one is immune to climate change, even the most developed countries — such as, for example, the United States.
In order to adapt to or minimize the adverse effects of climate change, the United States has invested billions of dollars in coastal areas such as Florida, California, New York and Hawaii, to name only a few.
We encourage the United States and other leading developed countries to champion the fight against climate change.
As we gather here at the United Nations, it is truly regrettable that we are once again witnessing the far-reaching and apocalyptic effects of climate change, such as the recent devastation inflicted by a hurricane on our sister small island developing State of the Bahamas.
It is clear that the ambitious actions on the climate that Member States so urgently require can save the most vulnerable among us.
His momentous visit put a spotlight on the climate crisis and the deepening threats to the ocean.
I also commend him for leading the Climate Action Summit to raise ambitions and increase action on climate, an issue that is front and centre for all small island developing States and indeed the entire world.
The climate disaster, crisis, emergency, threat or whatever one chooses to call it is not just a problem for the small island developing States, Europe or America.
Beyond the significant importance of close cooperation with our development partners, there are also complementary and significant steps that we are engaging in through South-South cooperation in order to fully realize and implement the Sustainable Development Goals, including with regard to climate change and the ocean.
It would be a travesty, however, if our maritime zones and our right to them were challenged or reduced because of sea-level rise, to which we are among those who contribute the least.
In that regard, we welcome the International Law Commission’s decision earlier this year to study the topic of sea-level rise.
I urge the international community to develop State practices that respect the permanence of maritime baselines and zones, irrespective of sea-level rise.
We need a United Nations that can meet the challenges of the twenty-first century, dedicated to acting with bold decisions in order to tackle the security threats posed by climate change, to eradicating poverty and resolving armed conflicts, to leading the poor out of poverty and bringing sustainable development to all — in short, a United Nations that leaves no one behind.


  
     532     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GAB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

This session is being held at a time when the world is suffering the terrible effects of climate change.
The devastation of Cyclones Idai and Kenneth in southern Africa and, more recently, Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas and on the east coast of the United States, to mention only those recent cases, remain a tragedy of grim memory that demonstrates the extreme vulnerability of our planet to the unprecedented scale of evidence of climate change.
How can we galvanize multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion in an international context in which multilateralism is tested more than ever and in which terrorism and violent extremism continue to spread death, fear and insecurity in many parts of the world?
It is four years since the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), followed by the signing of the Paris Agreement.
Yet we note with regret the limited results in combating climate change, which remain well below expectations.
Worse still, some actors continue to clearly doubt the relevance of climate change and operate in a contradictory dynamic.
It is therefore urgent to meet the commitments made towards developing countries, particularly in the areas of clean technology transfer and improving people’s access to renewable energy, to accelerate their transition from a traditional polluting industry to a low-carbon, environmentally friendly one.
In the light of that requirement, we welcome the recent convening of the Climate Action Summit, while commending the interest in and the amount of the pledges made, which were in line with our aspirations and needs.
For Gabon, climate change action is based on three pillars, namely, improving living conditions, implementing climate adaptation projects and protecting biodiversity.


  
     533     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GBR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

New advances are making renewable energy ever cheaper, aiding our common struggle against climate change.


  
     534     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GEO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Georgia, like all present here, faces the global challenges that confronting today’s world — climate change, biodiversity loss, universal and accessible health, education for all, and overcoming poverty, unemployment and inequalities.
In addition, climatic changes are on the verge of producing a massive new category of migrants, who will leave territories turning to deserts, flooded by rising seas or destroyed by hurricanes or fires.
Climate change, it is clear to us all, affects every individual and every country.
Georgia, as a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, is fully committed to the objectives of the Convention and endorses the findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Georgia therefore updated its nationally determined contribution, in parallel with the elaboration of a climate action plan for the 2021-2030 period, ensuring that in 2030 greenhouse gas emissions will remain at 40 per cent below the level recorded in 1990.
The Climate Action Summit demonstrated the momentum and showed the potential to leap forward by giving the climate community more ambitious measures for implementing the Paris Agreement.
Georgia, like many small countries, does not have industries that produce greenhouse gases, but like any other State we are feeling the impact and adapting.
We aim to build a climate-resilient Georgia and to reduce climate-driven losses.
We are therefore developing an integrated climate policy process, led by the Interministerial Committee on Climate Change, and putting in place climate-friendly incentives in the energy sector, as well as green-economy and energy- efficiency policies.


  
     535     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GHA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Now that the scientists have spoken on the realities of climate change, I believe it is time to direct our energies to what we can and should do to counteract the danger and end unnecessary arguments.
Nature has been brutal this year, demonstrating to us that our climate is changing and that we are probably pushing our world towards destruction.


  
     536     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GIN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We live in a world that is replete with of challenges of all kinds — inequality, armed conflict, terrorism and violent extremism, global warming, natural disasters, intolerance and the phenomenon of migration.
In terms of the environment and the fight against global warming, Guinea has committed to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 13 per cent, and a vast reforestation programme covering 2 million hectares throughout Guinea’s territory is planned by 2030.
Under my presidency of the African Union, the African Renewable Energy Initiative (AREI) was launched at the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
That transformative initiative, launched and led by Africa, is designed to accelerate, intensify and exploit the continent’s immense potential in renewable energy resources, sustainable development and respect for the climate, which are the watchwords of that initiative.
We can therefore say that with that renewable energy initiative, Africa is acting in the fight against climate change for both our continent and the world, better positioning Africa for participating in the world’s open trade networks.


  
     537     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GMB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme that the President has chosen for our general debate — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — is indeed very relevant for our times.
No country can single-handedly solve the challenges of global inequality, terrorism or climate change.
Extreme weather events, increasing desertification, deforestation, rising sea levels and the irreparable loss of biological diversity should all serve as a wake-up call that climate change is real and already upon us.
Will we take stronger or bolder steps to address it, or will we continue to take weak or half-hearted measures that do not take us near the 1.5°C target?
The Climate Action Summit, held on Monday, provided the world with a major opportunity for Member States to demonstrate their true commitment to taking critical action that will make a difference.
The Gambia is committed and is already taking action to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We expect all nations — small or big — to demonstrate their commitment by taking genuine climate action.
Let us leave New York with a new sense of urgency to tackle climate change.
In addition to the urgent need for climate action, there is the fact that hundreds of millions of people in the world today continue to lack health coverage.


  
     538     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GNB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, the threats of climate change, terrorism, transnational organized crime and the armed conflicts that are ravaging many places throughout the world will be checked and eventually overcome only through the joint efforts of States within the framework of the United Nations.
With respect to climate change, Guinea-Bissau, as a coastal country and archipelago, has a low-lying coastal area 5 meters below sea level, on average, which makes our country highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change.


  
     539     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GNQ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We agreed with the Secretary-General about convening a summit on a subject as important to humankind as climate change at this session of the General Assembly.
As we all know, climate change poses a clear threat to the safety and preservation of the human species on Earth.
We believe that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is essentially the efficient solution to the threat of global climate change.
Africa, in particular, is deeply concerned about the very negative effects of climate change on the continent, especially when, together with other causes, such as armed conflicts, it leads to the forced displacement of people, who are then concentrated in major camps and subjected to inhumane conditions.
Climate change leads to the destruction of Africa’s meagre infrastructure, a decline in agricultural production, high food prices, rising sea levels, declining water resources, reduced livelihoods of people living on the coast and an increase in the number of conflicts.
The situation, along with the aforementioned problems, should be addressed at the international level, particularly given that the General Assembly has mentioned the need to strengthen multilateral efforts to address the effects of climate change, poverty and sustainable development.


  
     540     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GRC_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Greece remains strongly committed to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to the long-term vision of a climate-neutral European Union economy by 2050.
To achieve those goals, the Greek Government has made addressing climate change a core component of its agenda.
That is not just a defensive strategy to protect our forests from wildfires and our beaches from erosion and rising sea levels.
To do so, we plan to adopt a new, ambitious national strategy for energy, environment and climate before the end of this year.
We will press forward with initiatives to protect our intangible cultural heritage from the impact of adverse climate conditions.
We will follow up on the international summit on the impact of climate change on cultural heritage, which took place in Athens in June, by calling for a high-level meeting next year to continue and expand on the work that begun at the Athens conference.


  
     541     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GRD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also applaud the Secretary-General’s unrelenting efforts to address the scourge of climate change and the global poverty eradication agenda.
The issues that we now face, such as eradicating poverty, providing quality education and taking climate action, are problems that cannot be solved by individual Member States.
The phenomenon of climate change and the attendant exacerbating consequences of increased frequency and more intense natural disasters are real, existential threats, which we must confront daily.
With limited access to and ever-increasing competition for climate and development financing, those climate change and poverty challenges are further intensified.
We therefore must focus on national and regional sustainable development plans and programmes, long-term low-carbon development strategies, low greenhouse gas emissions strategies and comprehensive disaster risk reduction and risk management strategies.
We are firm in the view that effective multilateralism, based on an inclusive approach that takes into account the needs of all countries is the only way that we can address global challenges like climate change and poverty reduction.
It is clear that there is a strong relationship between climate change and poverty, with the most vulnerable being those that are most negatively impacted, while also being the ones that have contributed the least to the problem.
In that context, I wish to outline several of Grenada’s key initiatives, plans and programmes that are geared to addressing climate change and poverty eradication and will also further the objective of sustainable development.
We fully support the theme of this debate, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
We are indeed heartened by the indications of support received so far from the Green Climate Fund, the Global Environment Facility, the Nationally Determined Contributions Partnership, bilateral partners and other agencies focusing on climate finance.
The report indicates that investing $1.8 trillion globally in five areas of climate adaptation between 2020 and 2030 could yield $7.1 trillion in net benefits.


  
     542     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_GUY_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, we commend Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for his continued sterling leadership of the Organization, including the timely convening of the Climate Action Summit.
It emphasizes protecting our environment, enhancing prosperity and social cohesion and laying the foundation for the involvement of every citizen in sustaining a low-carbon trajectory of inclusive, diversified and climate-resilient growth.
As a low-lying coastal State, Guyana is particularly vulnerable to climate impacts.
Indeed, Guyana understands well the risks posed by climate change, as we see daily evidence of damage to the coastal zone, frequency of flooding in the hinterland areas and extreme meteorological events.
However, beyond merely responding as an affected country, Guyana has long committed itself to exercising leadership in pursuing actions to help mitigate anthropogenic climate change.
Guyana has established the importance of global environment services provided both using our natural resources and under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
These actions include the creation of a greenhouse-gas inventory, the integration of climate change into academic curricula, and the Green Towns initiative.
The science is clear, and the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has reaffirmed that the agreed goals for carbon emissions set out in the Paris Agreement are not sufficient to slow the rate of global warming, and that additional reductions are now required to slow and reverse the impacts of climate change.
I take this opportunity to underscore that the existential threat posed by climate change demands the urgent effort of all actors.
We therefore applaud the fruitful discussions and positive momentum generated by the Climate Action Summit held last Monday.
Our experience has shown that whether in combating climate impacts, expanding economic benefits or consolidating democratic norms, extreme vigilance is required to safeguard hard-earned and cherished gains.


  
     543     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_HND_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

One of the causes of migration is the coffee crisis, which is driven by low prices and the effects of climate change.
They call this climate change and climate crisis.
The Germanwatch Global Climate Risk Index indicates that Honduras, Puerto Rico and Myanmar are the three places in the world most affected by extreme climate events.
Honduras has begun its fight against climate change.
One decade ago, the Green Climate Fund was established with great fanfare, but poor management and bureaucracy makes access almost impossible.
In Honduras, we are promoting systems of agricultural production that are adapted to climate change, with our own resources.
We must hold accountable those who are truly responsible for climate change.
We must take action to combat climate change if we wish to live, if we wish to survive.


  
     544     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_HRV_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I believe that we must use the coming months and the seventy-fifth birthday of our Organization in 2020 not only to emphasize its accomplishments and global relevance to the spheres of peace and security, development, climate action, human rights and humanitarian assistance, but also to take a bold leap forward and reiterate our commitments.
It is incumbent upon us to address the greatest challenges of the globalized twenty-first century — climate change, sustainable development, migration, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and new technologies.
The goals before us — poverty eradication, quality education, inclusion and climate action — cannot be achieved without individual national efforts coupled with our common dedication and action.
Finally, Croatia is dedicated to fighting climate change through the implementation of innovative solutions that will transform our economy and society, and remains committed to the efficient fulfilment of its obligations under the Paris Agreement.
However, climate change and pollution threaten our natural resources, our delicate ecosystems and our Adriatic Sea.
I spoke last year (see A/73/PV.8) about the Ocean Cleanup project, the first feasible method to rid the world’s oceans of plastic and remove 50 per cent of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch in just five years.


  
     545     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_HTI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am pleased to note that this session’s general debate has been strongly characterized by the hallmark of promoting multilateralism, as proven by the central theme of this session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.


  
     546     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_IND_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we take a historical and per-capita emission perspective, India’s contribution to global warming is very low.
One of the effects of global warming is the increasing number and severity of natural disasters, which are also appearing in new areas and in new forms, in response to which India initiated the formation of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.


  
     547     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_IRL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Gathering as we are on the eve of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, undertaking a range of summits on addressing climate action, financing for development, health, the Sustainable Development Goals and the immediate challenges facing small island developing States, we can be in no doubt not only as to the complexity and interdependence of the world that we inhabit today but also about the interacting crises now facing us that cannot be avoided — an ecological crisis affecting our very existence and a global crisis of deepening inequality and a loss of social cohesion that creates a crisis of institutional credibility.
The challenges facing the international community today, interconnected and truly global as they are, are numerous, but none is more urgent than climate action.
We must show solidarity and support for the Bahamas and all countries on the front lines of the climate emergency that we are now experiencing.
Climate change is moving so much faster than the efforts we are expending or enlisting to address it.
Climate action is essential, of course, if we are to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
With the Paris Agreement, we have both the framework and the foundations to move forward.
The debate on climate action in some respects has not only continued to provide hope for those of us who place our faith in the multilateral system.
Drawing on their expertise and their stark experience, small island developing States have led the debate on climate change.
We must see and promote the connection between the measures needed to respond to climate change, measures that will end the exclusions of global poverty and also meet the sufficiency needs of a global community in terms of food, nutrition, education, health and housing.
I agree with Secretary-General Guterres when he says that schoolchildren have grasped the urgency of climate action better than some global leaders.
Young people and citizens of all generations are asking us now for more than a reassuring verbal response to climate change.
Young people are now at the leading edge of the rapid technological revolution we are living through, and this is important, for much of the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and other international commitments can be delivered only with technological steps forward.
To give direction to our commitment, we launched a new international development policy with a realigned focus on four priorities: gender equality, climate action, good governance and the combat against poverty, all to be delivered within the framework of the Sustainable Development Goals.
I am very conscious of the fact that the most acute poverty is in zones of conflict and that displacement of our fellow global citizens is increasing, whether because of conflict, climate change or ethnic prejudice and hate.
The increasing effect of climate change on international peace and security gives this proposal even greater urgency.


  
     548     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_IRQ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I wish the General Assembly every success at its current session, particularly as we note that our priorities in addressing the challenges of climate change, health care and sustainable development represent a constructive step that we hope to make towards finding common international ground in reaching the solutions that the planet and humankind need.


  
     549     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ISL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is one of the most important challenges of our times, if not the most important.
Iceland is firmly committed to reaching the goals of the Paris Climate Change Agreement by 2030.
But we can do even better, and we are therefore aiming to reach full carbon neutrality by 2040.
Climate change and the health of our oceans are a key priority in our foreign policy, including in the Arctic Council and the Nordic Council, which Iceland currently chairs.
More than 70 per cent of the surface of our planet is covered by water, and yet we tend to think of climate change only in connection with the atmosphere.
Our oceans are of crucial importance to any meaningful discussion on climate change and have too often been on the margins instead of at the centre.
Climate change is also ocean change.
The fight against climate change should begin at home, but high-income countries should also support lower-income countries in addressing the causes and consequences of climate change.
That is an areas for focus in Iceland’s new development cooperation policy, and earlier this week my Government announced that we will double our contribution to the Green Climate Fund.
In that connection, the Climate Action Summit earlier this week was an important event.
The connection between climate change, human rights, development and security is evident in many conflicts and demands a holistic approach.


  
     550     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ITA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

A few months ago, the Secretary-General used the expression “a world of trouble” to describe the breadth and complexity of the challenges that we are called upon to confront — climate change, armed conflicts, human rights, inequality and trade disputes.
With regard to the phenomenon of climate change, we fully agree with the urgent need for global action to respond to the challenge, as voiced yesterday at the Climate Action Summit.
We recognize the disproportionate impact that climate change will have on future generations.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a crucial starting point, but we must remain cognizant of our moral and political duty to pass the planet on to our children in the best possible condition.
Furthermore, owing to its leadership in the area of renewable energy, Italy is at the forefront in combating climate change.
Italy has already met the 2020 emissions-reduction targets set by the European Union and, by the end of next year, we are committed to developing a strategy for achieving climate neutrality by 2050.
We will not waver in our support of the Chilean presidency of the twenty-fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     551     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_JAM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is also growing religious intolerance, increasing xenophobic behaviour and, not least, the devastating effects of climate change.
I therefore very much welcome the theme chosen for the General Assembly’s general debate this year, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
Sustained progress is not achievable without the requisite quantity and quality of public and private investment to close the financing gap for climate action and the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Based Climate Action and report entitled The Ocean as a Solution for Climate Change: 5 Opportunities for Action enjoy Jamaica’s full support.
That brings me to the single most visible threat to the global environment, which is climate change.
Its effects are intensifying, with coastal cities and low-lying island nations facing the greatest risk.
We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life and extensive damage to property, infrastructure and livelihoods occasioned by this climate disaster.
Jamaica has adopted several policies and legislative measures to reduce its vulnerability to natural hazards and adapt to the effects of climate change.
More action is needed at the national and global levels to urgently tackle climate change.
I was therefore honoured by Secretary-General Guterres’s mandating Jamaica to jointly lead, along with France and Qatar, the climate-finance and carbon-pricing track at the recently concluded United Nations Climate Action Summit.
The success of these efforts for climate action will depend on adequate financing and transformative and scalable programmes.
I look forward to building on the outcomes of the Summit and the decisions to be made at the twenty-fifth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Santiago later this year.


  
     552     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_JOR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Water-scarce countries like Jordan already know the dangers of climate change.


  
     553     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KAZ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The impact of climate change in Central Asia in particular will result in dramatic existential challenges, such as desertification, the melting of glaciers and the subsequent depletion of drinking and irrigation water.


  
     554     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KEN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this year’s session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, is timely.
They are exacerbated by the disruptive effects of climate change, which introduce ecological vulnerabilities into a very delicate security context.
Pressure from population growth, diminishing resources and climate change puts stress on natural resources such as water, food, arable land and energy.
I congratulate the Secretary-General on convening the Climate Action Summit.
We must implement and scale up affordable solutions that will help us leapfrog to sustainable and more resilient economies that can reduce greenhouse emissions and push global warming below 1.5°C.
Kenya and Turkey were the co-leaders of the infrastructure, cities and local action aspect of the Summit, whose aim is to build better climate resilience initiatives for the urban poor.
We urge countries to put their vulnerable and poor urban communities at the centre of their climate action plans.
In the Horn of Africa we are witnessing a confluence of climate change and conflict.
We welcome the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s special report on Global Warming of 1.5°C, which points to the urgent action needed to avert catastrophic global climate change.
For its part, Kenya has embarked on programmes for sustainable, proactive climate action.
We estimate that we need between $2.5 trillion and $3 trillion annually to finance the SDGs and climate action and to target the critical needs of our global population.


  
     555     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KGZ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

This session’s theme of the general debate of the General Assembly “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” is particularly relevant.
As a mountainous country, the Kyrgyz Republic is severely affected by the negative impacts of climate change.
Such consequences of climate change cannot but concern the Kyrgyz Republic as a landlocked mountainous country.
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has now submitted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change for ratification by the country’s Parliament.


  
     556     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KHM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The arms race is being revived by the reckless use of threats and by breaking international commitments, to the detriment of the world’s efforts to reduce poverty, combat climate change and promote prosperity and a better quality of life.
Natural disasters related to climate change are becoming more intense, dramatic and frequent, with worsening humanitarian consequences.
That is how we can sustain the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which is a milestone in the history of climate governance.
As one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change, Cambodia will continue to take steps to tackle the issue and fully honour its obligations.
A few days ago, we convened the Climate Action Summit here in New York.


  
     557     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KIR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this year’s session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, is a reminder of the fact that for our national development action to be effective, we need a stronger global political alignment at the multilateral level in order to ensure that support and assistance are delivered to those who matter the most and according to their needs and priorities.
We are fully leveraging our partnerships; the A$58 million South Tarawa water supply and sanitation project will be co-funded by the Green Climate Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
It is clear that we cannot wait, for the damage caused by climate change is a daily experience in our lives.
The alarming dilemma of our present time, that is, climate change, is without question of great importance to Kiribati and our Blue Pacific.
The signs validated by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) special report Global Warming of 1.5°C were already evident to us before such reports were even released.
We have already secured green-climate funding for one project and are now strengthening access to climate finance, which we have earmarked through our climate change policy and our integrated Kiribati joint implementation plan.
The recent IPCC report is clear that the rising sea levels have the potential to profoundly shift the baselines, thereby altering legal entitlements regarding the spatial extent of our delineated boundaries endorsed by the United Nations.
The IPCC reports serve as a catalyst for informed decisions on action by Governments, and now multilateral policies for actions to ramp up our commitment to implementation.
We live in a paradox every day, with the blue ocean that we have now coined as our regional approach to climate consciousness at the very core of who we are in Kiribati.
I challenge members to come to the islands, in particular to hear the voice of our young people calling, “We are not sinking, we are fighting”, as they joined the voice of millions of children around the world in their climate change strike last Friday.
I want to acknowledge the presence of that brave young girl from Sweden, Greta Thunberg.
Our theme, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” calls for a true reform of our multilateral system.


  
     558     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KNA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

One of the issues that is a clear and present danger to small and developing nations is climate change.
Climate change is a product of developed nations’ push for economic growth and industrialization.
For far too long and with far-reaching consequences, rich countries have been allowed to emit greenhouse gases unimpeded.
Yet the brunt of climate change is borne by developing nations.
People in developing countries will feel the impact first and worst because of vulnerable geography and their lesser ability to cope with damage from severe weather and rising sea levels.
With increasing vociferousness, the leaders of the Caribbean, and indeed of small island developing States (SIDS) from every corner of our globe, have raised the issue of climate change and the grave and present danger that it poses to all of us.
Today I join my voice with that of the Prime Minister of Saint Lucia, Mr. Allen Chastanet, to support the effort to establish a SIDS foundation for climate adaptation and mitigation.
We are tired of the agencies whose brokerage of climate funds is more centred on implementation fees than on adaptation impact.
The scientific community has further reinforced our call to limit the increase in temperatures to 1.5 C° if we are to stabilize the global climate.
Exceeding 1.5 C° will mean ever-increasing climate risks such as extreme weather, sea-level rise, increased poverty and a threat to hundreds of millions of lives.
Limiting global warming to 1.5 C° for SIDS is not optional.
In the face of global warming, we need a blue strategy to preserve and protect what is so important to our food security, the livelihoods of our fisher folk and our economic growth and development.


  
     559     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_KOR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change are major tasks that we must achieve through multilateral cooperation.
We have enacted related laws, such as the sustainable development act, the framework act on low-carbon green growth and the framework act on international development cooperation.
The second P4G summit will provide an opportunity to strengthen the international community’s solidarity for the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the SDGs.


  
     560     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LAO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Many parts of the world have been experiencing more frequent and more severe effects of climate change, which has extensively affected the livelihoods of people globally.
While developed countries may be more resilient to climate change and better able to adapt to it, developing countries, particularly the least-developed countries — including my own country — remain very vulnerable.
Conscious of the importance of combating climate change, the Lao Government is now focusing on the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We have already mainstreamed our nationally determined contribution, and we have integrated climate change efforts and natural disaster risk reduction into our national socioeconomic development plan.
At the regional level, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) has also made a common effort to address the impact of climate change and disaster risk management, among other things.
In that connection, we very much appreciate the United Nations support to ASEAN through the implementation of the ASEAN-United Nations Joint Strategic Plan of Action on Disaster Management 2016-2020 and the World Bank Group’s Climate Change Action Plan 2016- 2020.
But having this legal framework in place is not enough to combat climate change.
In the past few years, alongside existing challenges such as conflicts, terrorism, poverty, pandemics, climate change, natural disasters and trade friction, we have seen increasing confrontation and tension threaten international peace and security and erode development gains.
We firmly believe that in addition to national ownership and leadership, we need to scale up global partnerships in order to accelerate progress towards the effective implementation of development agendas such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and programmes of action for groups of countries in special situations, with the ultimate objective of transforming our world into a healthy planet so that all humankind can live in peace and prosperity.


  
     561     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LBN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Two days ago, the Secretary-General convened the Climate Action Summit here at the United Nations.
In that context, Lebanon, as one the first signatories of the Paris Agreement, joined the group of countries supporting the initiative of President Van der Bellen of Austria for a more ambitious approach to climate action.
The theme of the General Assembly’s debates this year is “Galvanizing the multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
Since then the world has known many wars and conflicts, especially in the Middle East, the constant flashpoint where the temperature rises or falls but never cools down.


  
     562     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LBR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Trade protectionism and climate change are having unintended consequences, especially for developing countries.
The theme of this seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly is “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, which certainly reminds us of our responsibility to focus on achieving the purposes of the United Nations in principle and practice.


  
     563     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LCA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

At that meeting, the Secretary-General acknowledged the challenges faced by small island developing States (SIDS), especially that of climate change.
We are very encouraged by his commitment to supporting the advancement of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean proposal on debt for climate adaptation swaps for SIDS.
We opened this high-level week with a focus on climate change and climate action.
Where is the action to deploy, with immediate effect, the resilient solutions and the commitment to wrestling to the ground the fact that a heating planet is to blame and the fact that we are the ones who are heating it?
In fact, in the face of this new climate change reality, we are being forced to consider every all options to ensure our survival and that of our people.


  
     564     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LIE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development remains a central blueprint for our common future, with the enormous challenge of climate change at its core.


  
     565     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LKA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this year’s general debate is both timely and significant as we strive to build a world of peace and prosperity by eradicating extreme poverty, ensuring access to quality education and striving to respond to climate change and to promote inclusion.
Yet the end of the road is a long way off, with the increasingly devastating impacts of climate change threatening to reverse those gains and impede our path to development.
Sri Lanka reiterates its strong commitment to the climate-related global initiatives.
It endorses the clear message of the Climate Action Summit, held last week in this very venue, and notes that we are on the brink of a climate emergency.
Inequality-driven push factors, aggravated by climate change, have a definite negative bearing on individuals and communities, forcing them to leave their usual habitats, resulting in a mass-scale migration of people.
Climate change has also exacerbated the global phenomenon of poverty, undermining human dignity and remaining one of the greatest threats to the achievement of the Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     566     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LSO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, the problem of refugees and migration, armed conflict and violence, internal displacement, a lack of respect for human rights, terrorism and many other challenges continue to transcend our borders.
It is in that context that we hail the relevance of our theme for this general debate, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
In the space of one week, we have held four summits seeking to address the most pertinent issues facing the world right now — climate change, universal health coverage, sustainable development and financing for development.
With regard to climate change, Lesotho is aware of its serious vulnerability to the challenges it faces due to its location, size and topography.
As a result, our Government has made a commitment to building resilience to the effects of climate change by reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030 by 10 per cent using internal resources, and by 25 per cent using external resources.
At the same time, we call for international assistance in our adaptation efforts in the area of capacity-building and the provision of adequate resources, in line with existing commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We also call on Member States to ratify the Paris Agreement and fulfil their obligations under it.
And we urge those who are contemplating withdrawing from the Paris Agreement to refrain from doing so so that at this defining moment we do not spoil the benefits of our collective action.
It is time for all countries — developed or developing, rich or poor — to join hands and take bold climate action to save Mother Earth.
We particularly applaud his inclusion of young people in the global discussions on climate-action initiatives.
It is my firm belief that this is a step in the right direction towards enabling them to be the drivers of climate action, since they are the generation that will affected the most in the long run.


  
     567     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LTU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our common efforts to seek security and justice create the preconditions for fighting poverty, income inequality, social exclusion and the climate crisis.
In Lithuania’s view, violations of a rules-based global order, the transformation of cyberspace into a new arena for an arms race and disrespect for international environmental and nuclear safety standards, as well as neglect of climate change, should be considered the most serious risks.
Our commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change remains critical to Lithuania’s long-term strategy.
Our climate change mitigation policy is based on the sustainable use of renewables and increased energy efficiency.
Along with developing wind and solar energy, we are also determined to switch from fossil fuels to biomass in the heating sector.
We presented the sustainable heating initiative, supported by a number of countries, at the Climate Action Summit 2019 and we are ready to share our experience with all interested parties.
In the upcoming United Nations discussions on environmental issues, we will speak in favour of enhancing climate and security elements.


  
     568     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LUX_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am referring, first and foremost, to the climate emergency, as reflected by the great many demonstrations in cities and towns in countries around the world.
International security, growth, migration and human rights — not one of those areas is today unaffected by climate change, which becomes ever more alarming each year.
The recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change details the scale of the challenge and the urgent need for action.
Only by cutting present global greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030 followed by climate neutrality by 2050 will allow us to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
I was able to take the opportunity, for which I am grateful, on Monday during the Climate Summit to give an account of my country’s contributions to collective efforts: first, we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 to 55 per cent by 2030 compared to 2005 levels; secondly, we will increase the share of renewable energy in the mix we consume by 23 to 25 per cent by 2030; we will increase energy efficiency by 40 to 44 per cent by 2030; and thirdly, we will soon adopt a framework climate law aiming to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
However, in the fight against climate change over the decades to come, young people are our allies, because they are never, on principle, opposed to change.
In Luxembourg, we decided to show that the fight against climate change can bring positive change and an improvement in the quality of life for all.
With regard to international solidarity, for 2021-2025, Luxembourg will allocate €200 million for financial and technical assistance to combat climate change in developing countries, with priority given to the least developed countries and small island developing States.
A significant portion of those funds will go to the Green Climate Fund.
In partnership with the European Investment Bank, also based in Luxembourg — which I sincerely thank for its collaboration — we created the Climate Finance Platform to increase our ability to leverage private investments in climate projects while mitigating their financial risk.
The funds allocated to international climate financing and to hosting refugees are additional to that, in accordance with the principle of additionality.
In that connection, to name but two examples, I note our participation in the High Ambition Coalition to fight climate change and our contribution to the Alliance for Multilateralism.
In this regard, I believe it is important to renew our commitments, including in the light of the developments that have taken place since its adoption, particularly in the field of climate and the digital economy.


  
     569     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_LVA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate, too, is global.
Climate change must be tackled at the international, State and individual levels.
We must collaborate across borders to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change.
The empowerment of young people can play an important role in climate action, as we recently witnessed at the Youth Climate Summit.
Latvia is committed to the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In Latvia, we have reduced our greenhouse-gas emissions by almost 60 per cent compared to our 1990 levels, but we understand that it is not enough, and we therefore support climate neutrality as a goal for the future.
We are currently working on an ambitious low-carbon development strategy that will enable Latvia to reach climate neutrality by 2050.
Earlier this year, my Government approved a national climate change adaptation plan for 2030.
A major solution for mitigating climate change that aligns closely with Latvia’s own experience is sustainable forest management, which provides continuous carbon sinks and sustainable forest products that can replace fossil-based materials, thereby reducing emissions.


  
     570     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MAR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Combating climate change, achieving sustainable development, coping with migration flows, addressing security challenges, fighting terrorism, countering violent extremism and human trafficking are all challenges that require cooperation through a multilateral approach.
Thirdly, regarding climate change, Morocco hosted the twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 22) in 2016.
In this regard, the first African Summit convened on the margin of the COP 22, under the royal presidency, led to establish and activate three climate initiatives in order to enable the African countries to coordinate among each other amid best circumstances and address climate challenges as serious and realistic challenges facing the world.


  
     571     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MCO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We would be either presumptuous or dangerously indifferent if we did not assess the impact of the renewed call from the world’s youth about our climate emergency and failed to respond to it with speed, ambition and effectiveness.
This year’s Climate Action Summit, which was so well organized by the Secretary-General with the support of Special Envoy Luis Alfonso de Alba, enabled us to showcase the mobilization and creativity of all the actors in our societies.
For its part, the Principality is firmly committed to carbon neutrality by 2050 and plans to take the steps needed to achieve that ambition.
Our energy transition mission, established in 2016, is redoubling its efforts to accelerate the transition of multiple stakeholders to run on low carbon.
In that regard, we are paying particular attention to aligning policies combating climate change and preserving air quality in order to safeguard health, in line with the commitments under the BreatheLife campaign, coordinated by the World Health Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme and the Climate and Clean Air Coalition.
Monaco has also joined the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action with a view to making progress in implementing economic and financial policies supporting the global transition to a low-carbon economy.
Beyond measures at the national level, Monaco will be taking its full share of responsibility with regard to the collective goal of mobilizing $100 billion annually between now and 2025 for climate action in developing countries.
In that regard, the Principality will participate in the first replenishment of the Green Climate Fund.
Monaco is committed to the nature-based solutions coalition with a view to maximizing the major contribution of natural capital to climate action.
Climate change and the collapse of biodiversity, far from being isolated crises, are two alarming symptoms of the anthropocene age that we must respond to together.
Based on that belief, the Government of Monaco is committed to attaching the same degree of importance to the preservation of biodiversity and the fight against climate change.
Starting in 2020, for example, Monaco will be increasing its international funding aimed at preserving and regenerating biodiversity, while mitigating and promoting adaptation to climate change and improving the resilience of vulnerable populations.
The protection of forests and the essential services that they do for human communities, especially as carbon sinks, is of course fundamental.
It will also be crucial to preserve the seas and oceans, whose key role in climate balance and extreme vulnerability to global warming we have been made aware of thanks to advances in science.
In that regard, the Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which was the subject of a meeting concluded yesterday in Monaco, is damning.
It is therefore up to us to take full account of its conclusions and of the recommendations made by many scientists so that we can translate those findings into the political decisions we will take next year in the areas of climate change, conservation and the sustainable use of oceans and biological diversity.
Sea levels are rising, ocean acidification is accelerating, the last four years have been the hottest on record and 1 million plant and animal species are threatened with extinction.


  
     572     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MDA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Military conflicts and humanitarian crises, climate change and environmental degradation, excessive consumption of natural resources, economic imbalances and forcible and encouraged migration are real threats to the task of building a prosperous and peaceful world as set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Climate change is a direct threat to humankind, and its effects are felt worldwide, affecting ecosystems, national economies and health-care systems.
The Republic of Moldova expresses its solidarity with Mr. Guterres’ call to intensify efforts to halt climate change.


  
     573     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MDG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Of course, we are committed to marshalling our strength to end all forms of poverty, combat inequality and address climate change, while also ensuring that no one is left behind.
We will need to strengthen and coordinate our efforts to combat climate change, the consequences of which have become increasingly felt, and which unfortunately greatly worsen poverty and inequalities among peoples today.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change enabled all signatory countries to make a concrete commitment to combating rising temperatures through nationally determined contributions.
Based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, I call on the signatory countries to assume their responsibilities so as to ensure that the necessary efforts and resources are mobilized with a view to reverse the current trend, because the most vulnerable countries are often the ones that bear the brunt of climate change.
Despite being responsible for less than 1 per cent of the world’s greenhouse-gas emissions, Madagascar is feeling the full impact of climate change, including increasingly frequent and violent tropical cyclones, drought, flooding and disruptions to the agricultural calendar.
However, Madagascar is aware of its responsibility and is now showing firm political will in the collective effort to mobilize against climate change.
It is worth pointing out the multiple consequences of climate change in the south of the country and the Government’s strong political will to provide structural and ambitious responses to them.


  
     574     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MDV_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Meanwhile, the climate crisis looms ever larger, heightened by our collective inability to address it — which is why the world needs the United Nations now more than ever.
It is our intention to be a good international partner and to be part of a shared solution to the pressing issues of our time, from climate change to fighting the scourge of terrorism.
For more than 30 years, we have been struggling to meaningfully address the climate emergency.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, if the mean temperatures continue to rise above the two-degree threshold, we will have reached the point of no return.
While the Paris Agreement was a breakthrough for what we can collectively achieve, so much more needs to be done.
We cannot and will not wait for the prescribed timelines of the Paris Agreement.
Just yesterday, at the Secretary-General’s Climate Action Summit, the Maldives presented a plan, entitled “Climate Smart Resilient Islands”, that seeks to utilize natural solutions, promote innovation and leverage new technologies to build resilience in our communities.
Furthermore, you cannot protect the oceans without solving climate change and you cannot solve climate change without protecting the oceans.
We can conceive of no climate and resilience plan without a sustainable ocean plan.


  
     575     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MEX_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mexico will contribute, and with great determination, in response to the appeal by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres that we step up climate action and redouble our efforts.


  
     576     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MHL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

But now, as an atoll small island developing State, a nation only one metre above sea level, with no higher ground, the climate crisis now forces us to engage in nation-saving.
Further, we welcome the recent issued made by the United States during the recent Pacific Islands Forum:
“The United States recognizes that addressing environmental degradation and climate change is a priority in the Pacific... due to the threat posed by sea-level rise and the region’s vulnerability to natural disasters.”
I suggest that the significance of that statement is underrecognized and that it could spur a vital and much-needed dialogue on climate change with our region.
We face communicable diseases such as the ongoing nationwide dengue fever outbreak, which is worsened by climate impacts.
Further, Taiwan should play a clear role within the United Nations system that includes meaningful participation in the relevant specialized agencies and mechanisms, such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the World Health Assembly and the International Civil Aviation Organization.
That demands a perfect sea-level balance — one that is now upset by sea-level rise.
Warming waters are leading to an increased and near-constant bleaching of coral, the survival of which, globally, is now at risk by mid-century.


  
     577     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MKD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In August, for the first time in its history, Iceland lost a glacier to climate change.
A bronze plaque was mounted on a rock in Iceland to commemorate a once seemingly eternal glacier that had been lost to global warming.
Earlier this week, we discussed the urgency of fully implementing our commitments to mitigating climate change.
The Climate Action Summit, organized by the Secretary-General on the theme “A race we can win: a race we must win”, has provided us with the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, expand our ambitions and recognize the impact of climate change on the security and stability of the world and its devastating consequences for human beings.
It also provided an opportunity to mobilize the energy of different stakeholders in the climate change arena and to recognize that our undertaking is of a global nature.
In that regard, the nationally determined contributions are key to accelerated climate action.
The Republic of North Macedonia has increased its national contributions to the Paris Agreement and has incorporated them as targets in national laws and policies.
Achieving the goals of eliminating poverty, as well as reducing inequality and the negative impact of climate change and environmental degradation and all the other important goals and targets, which are all cross-cutting and interlinked, provides vast opportunities for countries and international organizations to act to secure the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.


  
     578     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MLI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is particularly true with regard to the theme of the seventy-fourth session of the Assembly, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
I also take this opportunity to welcome the Alliance for the Sahel, which aims to federate and coordinate the commitment of our partners in six priority areas of action — youth employment, rural development and food security, energy and climate, governance and decentralization, access to basic social services, and security — which will cost €6 billion over the period from 2018 to 2022.
The same can be said of our membership in the African Risk Capacity Insurance Company Limited, whose treaty Mali ratified in 2016, and which has enabled us, for the past four seasons of insurance contracts, to deal with the consequences of climate hazards.
As a country of the Sahel mainly engaged in agriculture, livestock and fisheries, Mali remains deeply concerned about climate change, one of the major challenges to the survival and development of humankind.
My country is suffering the full brunt of the effects of climate change, characterized by the spread of desertification and its impact on fauna and flora, the drying up of our rivers and streams, hotter weather and repeated floods.
That is why I would like to reaffirm Mali’s commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
To that end, and in the context of the Secretary-General’s Climate Action Summit, we will submit to him and the co-leaders of his Climate Finance coalition, France, Jamaica and Qatar, a concrete proposal to trigger and accelerate a wave of low-carbon investment by redirecting global savings towards infrastructure and industrial and agricultural production processes in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
Additionally, Mali will work within the African Union to systematically integrate climate change into the cooperation between the continent and each of its strategic partners.


  
     579     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MMR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Myanmar considers this year’s theme, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, to be most timely.
The adverse effects of climate change pose significant obstacles to poverty reduction and threaten hard-won progress towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Indeed, climate change could be considered the defining issue of our time.
In that connection, I welcome the convening of the Climate Action Summit and wish to underscore the urgency of responding to climate change and the importance of implementing both the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     580     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MNE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

People are running away not only from wars and persecution but also from the consequences of global warming and natural disasters.
This week’s Climate Action Summit 2019 has shown that the existing high level of international activities is not enough to achieve the goals agreed upon within the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     581     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MNG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Compared to that, in today’s world, there is virtually no other existence-threatening enemy, except for terrorism and the climate emergency.
Over this past high-level week, the international community gathered to unite in its resolve to speed up the collective action towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and addressing the climate emergency.
I wish to applaud the leadership of Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for hosting the Climate Action Summit earlier this week.
The summit proved instrumental in building the momentum to turn the tide in the climate emergency, as 77 countries, along with over 100 cities, committed to net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.
Seventy countries pledged to boost their nationally determined contributions by 2020, and a dozen Governments doubled their contributions to the Green Climate Fund.
Science tells us that any temperature increase greater than 1.5°C would lead to catastrophic and irreversible damage to the ecosystem that supports us.
Like many other developing countries, Mongolia has contributed the least to global warming.
Yet, in Mongolia, over the past 80 years, annual mean temperatures have increased by 2.26°C.
Given the fact that over 80 per cent of rural people’s livelihoods depend on nature, climate change is already having a devastating impact on our people, our lives and our economy.
For its part, Mongolia is faithfully fulfilling its nationally determined contribution to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 14 per cent.
Furthermore, a more ambitious nationally determined contribution target, along with sound climate-change legislation and policies, is being developed.
We are also working to set up a multilateral institution for electricity-grid interconnections to ensure energy security, job creation and the reduction of carbon-dioxide emissions in North-East Asia by tapping into its wind- and solar-energy potential.
This point was vividly demonstrated last weekend when millions of young people marched in the global climate strike to demand climate justice, action and accountability.
Their resolve helped to boost the momentum at the Climate Action Summit.


  
     582     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MOZ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The seventy-fourth session takes place at a time when the world faces a surge in political, geostrategic and trade tensions, the devastating effects of climate change and an increase in inequality among States and in access to quality basic social services that are essential to sustaining a decent standard of living.
Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion is an appeal to our collective responsibility to leave no one behind.
Due to its geographic location, Mozambique is considered by some scientists as the country in the world the second-most vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
We are also committed to strengthening adaptation and resilience measures in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which we signed in June 2018, as we are aware that natural disasters driven by climate change have become recurrent phenomena.
Actions to manage the effects of climate change on our country also include strengthening the early- warning system for natural phenomena and mapping vulnerable areas in order to prevent natural disasters and mitigate their consequences.
In that regard, we thank the Secretary-General for his wise and timely decision to convene the Climate Action Summit this week so as to mobilize the international community in boosting its ambitions towards achieve the goal of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, with a view to reversing the harmful consequences of global warming, which is a major threat to our planet and humankind.


  
     583     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MRT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In that respect, at its seventieth session in 2015, the General Assembly launched the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which includes a group of interlinking goals aimed at addressing major global challenges concerning the environment, climate, health care and education, as well as security, stability, development and others, for a better, more sustainable and more comprehensive future for humankind.
Moreover, along with other States of the Sahel, we have launched the Great Green Wall for the Sahara and the Sahel Initiative to counter the negative impact of desertification and climate change on our environment and agricultural resources.


  
     584     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MUS_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We commend the judicious choice of the theme “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” for this year’s session.
This is indeed a critical year for sustainable development and climate action.
Climate change continues to disrupt national economies and affect lives; economic growth is slow and uneven; income inequality is on the rise; achieving quality education is still beyond our reach; and official development assistance and humanitarian aid to those most in need, especially in the least developed countries and small island developing States (SIDS), are on the decline.
The devastating effects of Cyclone Idai in Southern Africa and Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas, the desolation left in the wake of wildfires in California, the sweltering heat of the hottest months that we have recently recorded on all continents and the latest ice cap melts in Greenland all point to an alarmingly dangerous and desolate future for our planet.
While the poor and vulnerable are the hardest hit, no single country is immune from the devastation and havoc that rising temperatures and global warming are creating in the lives and livelihoods of communities.
Millions of people are already at risk of being pushed into poverty by 2030 as a direct consequence of climate change.
In its latest report, Global Warming of 1.5°C, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change gives us an apocalyptic picture that compels us to act now.
We must renew and strengthen our commitment to limiting global warming to 1.5°C.
To that end, we need to considerably increase the financial resources we allocate to it and live up to the Paris pledges.
In Mauritius, the Government has embarked on the development of low-carbon-emission transport and will soon be launching a light rail transit system, in addition to implementing a massive greening programme to enhance our carbon-sinking capacity.
Small island developing States are particularly threatened by the dangerously intensifying impacts of climate change.
Developed and developing countries alike must address the deep-rooted causes of inequalities among States, such as the dynamic of financial flows among them, their uneven exposure to climate change and the very unequal way that they stand to benefit from technology.
Ocean acidification and unsustainable fishing pose major threats to our oceans and marine resources.


  
     585     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MWI_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have declared war on poverty, education inequality and climate change, and we have declared that we will fight for the inclusion of minority nations.
We have the means to slow climate change and save the planet.
Today, the more we strive to build our economies, the more climate change undermines them through disasters and external shocks.
And yet the leading architects of climate change are outside the developing countries.
Climate change is an existential threat.


  
     586     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_MYS_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Malaysia welcomes the theme of this year’s General Assembly, which is “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
It is said that palm oil is poisonous, destroys the habitats of long-nosed monkeys, reduces carbon dioxide absorption and so on.
The world is experiencing climate change.
Malaysia is hotter than ever before.
We do not seem to be returning to previous temperatures; in fact, it seems to be getting hotter and hotter.
Melting snow in the Arctic and Antarctic is causing sea levels to rise and threatening to overrun islands.
Is it possible for temperatures to rise to a level where living conditions become unbearable?
I think that, instead of preparing for war, we should be paying attention to climate change and the natural disasters that accompany it.
We should be preparing to combat climate change in order to bring back the normal environment we have been used to for thousands of years.


  
     587     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NAM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today, as we debate our theme, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, we see a need for introspection.
Considering the realities of the world today, we must ask ourselves if we can eradicate poverty, act consequentially on climate change or achieve socioeconomic inclusion without peace.
This year has brought the reality of climate change to the shores of every continent.
With that in mind, Namibia hereby reiterates its commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
A few days ago, young people converged here to demand consequential climate action that can safeguard the planet.
It is my hope that the outcomes of those deliberations will galvanize concrete efforts to arrest and reverse the existential threat of climate change.
Namibia is a country that can attest to the effects of climate change, as it is indeed a reality in our country.
The future hinges on their participation, and we must ensure that they are no longer on the fringes of decision-making, but instead at the forefront in galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion.


  
     588     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NER_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this year’s session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, is pertinent for several reasons.
In the international arena we see countries returning to the arms race, trade tensions, rising populism and xenophobia, growing inequalities, huge increases in migratory flows, the spread of terrorist and criminal organizations and the effects of climate change.
The issue of the effects of climate change transcends borders and is part of the international community’s remit.
As the situation in the Sahel and the Lake Chad basin illustrates, poverty, terrorism and climate change are closely linked.
That is why I want to call on all Member States to ensure that the conclusions of the Climate Action Summit, held yesterday, on 23 September, are implemented.
That is why we have emphasized climate change resilience in our sectoral policies and strategies for health, transport, agricultural and pastoral production and for local and regional land planning and development.
We have also taken steps to integrate the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions into our national programme for access to energy services and to strengthen the resilience and adaptive capacity of our agriculture and water sectors.
In that regard, I would like to highlight the importance of the Sahel’s climate investment plan for the period from 2018 to 2030 and its priority programme, important strategic instruments that were formulated under the Niger’s leadership in its capacity as Chair of the Climate Commission for the Sahel.
On behalf of the other members of the Commission, I would like to reiterate our appeal to the international community to give the conclusions of the round table on financing the plan and the climate agenda for the Sahel the attention they deserve, because continued poverty, climate change, terrorism and organized crime have immediate negative consequences for our States’ efforts to achieve the SDGs.
I hope that between now and then, bold decisions will have been taken to address the underlying causes of migration, including poverty, climate change and insecurity.
That is a sine qua non for addressing the challenges I have mentioned — poverty, climate change, terrorism and organized crime and migration.


  
     589     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NGA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of the current session of the General Assembly is “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
At the core of our efforts to build an inclusive society are other programmes that focus on youth and human empowerment and aim to ensure the participation of women and youth in governance, industry, climate action and agriculture.
With respect to the looming danger of climate change, Nigeria stands resolutely with the international community as we observe the agreed carbon emission targets that I signed in 2015.


  
     590     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NIC_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, coincides with our prioritized State policies that the Government of Nicaragua has successfully developed over the past decade.
Nicaragua welcomes the efforts promoted by the Secretary-General at the Climate Action Summit held here in New York, as well as the commitments undertaken within this framework by a large number of States, aimed at overcoming the grave threat to the existence of humankind caused by climate change.
Nicaragua and the countries of the Central American region are among the most vulnerable nations on the planet, and our people are suffering the extremely grave consequences of the destructive effects of climate change.
It is urgent that the international community adopt measures that curb global warming to ensure the future of the Earth, the future of humankind and the life of present and future generations.
Based on the principle of shared but differentiated responsibilities, our country is undertaking great economic, social and preventive efforts to address climate change, which have so far yielded internationally recognized positive results.
In Nicaragua, we continue to follow the path of development with social justice, family advocacy, gender equality, support for young people and improving security, education, health, energy, water and sanitation services, highways and roads, bridges, housing, agriculture and livestock, nature conservation in the context of climate change, small- and medium- sized businesses, the creative economy and everything represented by a culture based on identity, tradition and values, together with work, rights, well-being and the harmonious coexistence among Nicaraguans in peace, friendship, solidarity and cooperation with the States Members of the United Nations.
In assuming the responsibility that we shoulder as a State, we are ensuring that Nicaragua takes the path leading towards successful poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and especially social inclusion, as the vocation of our Government is to stand up for the poor and those who have historically been marginalized and for peace, good governance, progress, international security and the peaceful coexistence among the brotherly countries that constitute the United Nations.


  
     591     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NLD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Anyone who champions sustainable development must also champion climate action.
Climate change is one of the biggest threats to the achievement of the SDGs.
Climate change is affecting our livelihoods, security, health, living environments and future.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development demands that we all take more action to combat climate change.
Greenhouse gases do not recognize national borders.
We can combat climate change only if we work together, and we are glad to heed the call to take responsibility and show ambition.
In the Netherlands, the Government, municipalities, the business community, civil society and the general public have joined together with the goal of almost halving emissions by 2030 compared with 1990 levels.
At the same time, we are partnering with Costa Rica to help developing countries that want to raise their climate ambitions and take action.
What is more, next year we will be hosting the international Climate Adaptation Summit.


  
     592     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NOR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world needs strong multilateral cooperation and institutions to tackle global challenges such as climate change, cybersecurity and terrorism, and the United Nations needs to be strengthened so that we are better equipped to respond to the current challenges.
The threats facing the oceans are unprecedented — loss of biodiversity, marine pollution, climate change and the overexploitation of marine resources are just some of the challenges we are seeing.
We believe that ocean-based climate action can be a key to achieving our commitments under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In Paris, we made a commitment to delivering results and outlining new ambitions for significant reductions in carbon emissions by 2020.
Almost 30 years ago, we introduced a carbon tax in Norway, including in our petrol sector.
My Government’s budget proposal, to be presented next week, includes a 5 per cent increase in the tax on carbon emissions.
With European Union emissions trading and our carbon tax, we are actively using market mechanisms to speed up the green shift in our economy.
We are making it cheaper to be green and more expensive to pollute.
With close to 45 per cent of our new passenger cars now zero-emission vehicles, we are going from black to green in our passenger transport sector and we are also starting to reform our goods transport system.
As a major shipping nation, we are working in the International Maritime Organization to reduce emissions from ships, and we are scaling up the construction of offshore floating wind developments.
We must all do our part, and Norway will strengthen its nationally determined contribution by 2020.1 urge all other countries to do the same, because it is no longer possible to ignore the fact that climate change affects security.
Norway supports the call to appoint a special representative for climate and security, and we believe that the Security Council must address climate security issues.
Hurricane Dorian has reminded us of the devastating effects of the climate crisis, and Norway will continue to support the call for graduated countries to be eligible for official development assistance if they are severely affected by natural disasters.
Some of the countries experiencing the worst effects of climate change are among the world’s lowest emitters.
Climate-vulnerable countries such as Tuvalu, Dominica and the Seychelles should not bear the burden of adapting to this new reality alone.
For many years, Norway has championed emission reductions globally through our climate and forest initiative.
But reducing future emissions is of little immediate help to those already affected.
Norway is therefore scaling up its support for climate change adaptation, resilience and food security in climate-vulnerable countries.


  
     593     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NPL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The peril of climate change is outpacing our response.
It is the poorest and most vulnerable countries that are hardest hit by the effects of climate change.
Despite their negligible emissions, they face consequences that are disproportionate, unjust and undue.
In that context, Nepal appreciated the Secretary-General’s leadership in convening the Climate Action Summit on 23 September.
It was another milestone in charting a sustainable path in the face of obstinate ignorance of climate science.
Nepal, as home to Sagarmatha, also known as Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world, lies at a hotspot of climate change.
A report published this year by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development predicts that one third of glaciers in the Hindu Kush and Himalaya ranges will melt away by the end of the century even if we meet the 1.5°C commitment.
Climate-induced disasters wreak havoc every year.
Bearing in mind the seriousness of the issue and our own responsibility, the Government of Nepal has decided to convene a global dialogue in April under the theme of climate change.
Nepal has harmonized its national strategies on disaster risk reduction with those of the Sendai Framework, the SDGs, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the outcomes of the World Humanitarian Summit.
We are concerned because the health of the oceans is deteriorating alarmingly mainly due to climate change and reckless human activities.


  
     594     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NRU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

By working with our partners towards our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and climate goals, I am confident that my Administration can succeed where previous ones have stumbled.
Jointly funded by the Green Climate Fund, the Asian Development Bank, Australia and the Government of Nauru, the new port has the potential to become a hub of commerce for our small island and the wider Pacific.
The Higher Ground initiative, as it is known, represents a historic opportunity to build our resilience to climate change and sea-level rise by moving housing and critical infrastructure away from our vulnerable coastal areas.
Our water supply does not meet the standards of the World Health Organization, and we need to upgrade and climate-proof our health-care facilities.
The climate crisis is another challenge to our medium- and long-term viability, which is why climate action has been fully integrated into our development strategy.
We take our international obligation to reduce emissions very seriously, but as a small and vulnerable country, our overriding priority must be resilience.
The importation of fossil fuels is a massive drain on our national coffers.
However, as a word of concern, this fishery is projected to disperse and disappear from the waters of the nine member countries and territories of the Nauru Agreement in the not-too-distant future — another effect of the climate crisis.
Sea-level rise is not only about an existential threat to our small and low-lying island.
Climate change also threatens an economic Armageddon if the tuna fishery disappears.
As already mentioned, Nauru is taking very ambitious domestic action to address climate change, and while there are similar pockets of activity around the globe, the sum total leaves us far short of our goals as set forth in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
After decades of inaction and delay, many dangerous impacts are now unavoidable, all of which are well captured in the special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, entitled Global Warming of 1.5° C.
Climate change will be the defining security challenge of the century, and it requires a similarly robust multilateral response.
For that reason, Nauru supports the proposal by the Pacific small island developing States to appoint a United Nations special representative for climate and security, whose work must begin with an assessment of the capacity of the United Nations to respond to climate disasters.
The work of the International Law Commission on the topic of sea-level rise in relation to international law is of tremendous importance and interest for the Pacific region.
The issues around baselines and rising seas are critical, and we believe that it is in the interest of all States to give serious consideration to the effects of sea- level rise on the livelihoods of their peoples.


  
     595     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_NZL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is perhaps no better example of our absolute interdependence than the issue of climate change.
When the Secretary-General visited the Pacific region this year, he saw at first-hand how countries that have produced the fewest greenhouse gas emissions are now facing the most catastrophic effects.
In fact, 7 of the 15 most climate-affected nations in the world sit within the Pacific region, including places like Tuvalu, with a population of just over 11,000 people, which barely contributes to global emissions but is paying the price for our collective inaction; atolls so low-lying that in weather events the water on either side of them can flow together and join at the narrowest points, engulfed by the sea; or Tokelau, a beautiful set of three atolls that can only be accessed by boat, where the children speak knowledgeably about climate change, knowing that unlike all the challenges their self-reliant forbears have ever faced, this one is completely and utterly in other people’s hands.
We may produce only 0.17 per cent of global emissions, but like so many others, our gross emissions have been rising steadily since the 1990s.
Over the past two years since my Government took office, New Zealand has produced our own zero carbon legislation, which puts our domestic economic transformation in line with the objective of a 1.5°C limit in global temperature increase.
We are creating a plan to achieve 100 per cent renewable electricity generation and to incentivize low emission transport options.
Some answers to the climate challenge are easier than others.
The vast bulk of our greenhouse gas emissions, for instance, do not come from transport, energy generation or waste but from one of the things that we pride ourselves on — our food production for the world.
In fact, our farming leaders have made their own commitment to cutting emissions from food production.
Over the next five years, we will collaborate with farmers to build systems in New Zealand that every farmer will be able to use to measure, manage and reduce their own farm’s emissions.
Agriculture makes up nearly half of our greenhouse gas emissions, setting us apart from our counterparts in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, but we will not stay out there on our own for long.
That is why we are also focused on tackling the billions of dollars that countries spend annually on fossil fuel subsidies — billions that could instead be spent on transitioning to new forms of clean energy generation.
New Zealand will once more be calling on countries to support an end to fossil fuel subsidies at the Twelfth World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference, to be held in June 2020.
This week, New Zealand and a group of like-minded countries will also announce the launch of a new initiative that applies trade levers to climate-related goods, services and technologies.
It is time for trade deals to become a force for good on climate action.
Fossil fuel companies should no longer reap the benefits of subsidies that many, like our farmers and others, have been asked to give up.
Without the billions in subsidies that go into the fossil fuel industry, green energy can compete on an even footing.
Yet that is what climate change requires us to do and it is what, historically, our commitment to the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, asks us to do.


  
     596     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PAK_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I will first talk about climate change.
Our country is among the 10 nations of the world most affected by climate change.
We have now set ourselves a target of reaching 10 billion trees in Pakistan, with the goal of helping to counter the effects of global warming.
Richer countries, the countries that are mainly responsible for greenhouse-gas emissions, must be pushed to do more, because our country contributes a minuscule amount to greenhouse gas emissions.
I spoke to Prime Minister Modi and told him that our countries had similar problems — climate change and poverty.


  
     597     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PAN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have heard the concerns and warnings that were expressed at the Climate Action Summit loud and clear.
We must expand multilateral initiatives to strengthen the climate change regime, and we must fulfil the agreements we sign.


  
     598     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PER_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

To that end, we must take into account the lessons drawn from the negotiation processes that, in 2015, led to historic milestones such as the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Peru is a country that is particularly vulnerable to climate change and the risk of natural disasters.
That is why we have made an ambitious commitment to comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We have drawn up a road map with 91 adaptation measures and 62 climate-change mitigation measures that incorporate cross-cutting approaches to gender and interculturality, which will allow Peru to reach its nationally determined contributions by 2030.
As one of the world’s 10 megadiverse countries, Peru witnesses the serious impacts of climate change on biodiversity and ecosystems, particularly in the Amazon.
We are working on a national adaptation plan that aims to improve the resilience of the population, particularly those most vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.
Peru supports any initiative that would help limit the increase in global temperature.
That is why we accept with enthusiasm and a sense of responsibility the invitation extended by the Secretary-General to co-lead the Social and Political Drivers of Climate Action Coalition.
Finally, on behalf of the people and the Government of Peru, I reiterate our firm commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as well as our conviction that multilateralism is a means of addressing such global problems as climate change, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons, corruption and illicit drug trafficking, among others.


  
     599     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PHL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

States look to the United Nations to implement their priority agenda — peace and security, of course, humanitarian assistance foremost, along with human rights, and lately sustainable development, climate action, migrants and refugees.
Climate change — or, as Secretary-General Guterres calls it, the climate crisis — is the defining development issue of our time.
As one economist puts it, climate change matters so much for poverty: it is the poorest who are, and will be, hit earliest and hardest.
Climate change has brought my country—already one of the most vulnerable countries to disasters — extreme weather events of increasing recurrence and strength.
If climate action does not measure up to what is needed, we all face the same fate, that is, a diminished existence, then extinction altogether.
We already have the global frameworks to address poverty, sustain development and combat climate change.
Shifting political realities, successive power configurations and the increasing confused nature of global realities should not make the United Nations change its character and goals of peace and democracy, sustainable development, if possible, and climate action for our sake and our children’s.


  
     600     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PLW_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

To my predecessor’s list, I would add only that Palau is also large in its sense of responsibility for protecting the marine environment and the climate system.
Palau has made recent progress in achieving near- universal health coverage, but challenges remain in the area of improving the quality of health care and the durability of health-care systems in the face of the climate crisis.
However, our voluntary national review also identified areas requiring greater attention, including improving nutrition, transitioning to a low- carbon energy system and building the resilience of our public infrastructure and essential public services.
Local fisherman are not the only ones trawling our waters today, and the climate crisis threatens to render island lives and livelihoods untenable.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) today presented its Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate.
Its warnings about the impacts of the climate crisis on the ocean paint a picture of ocean neglect and of warming and acidifying seas that threaten fish life cycles and coral reefs.
If we are going to slow and stop the worst effects of the climate crisis, we cannot do so without turning to the ocean.
The High-level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy also issued a call this week for ocean- based climate action to support the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Investing in nature-based solutions, decarbonizing ocean industries and securing sustainable food are solutions that we can all take collectively.
I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his leadership in convening this week’s Climate Action Summit.
Palau is honoured to have been a member of the energy transition track for the Summit and to have presented and developed the small island developing States (SIDS) sustainable energy package, which is part of the commitment by SIDS to systematically and ambitiously transition to low-carbon economies.
In Palau we are about to begin the task of installing the world’s largest microgrid, which will enable us to meet our nationally determined contribution under the Paris Agreement well ahead of 2025.
It is also vital that we see an ambitious response by our developed country brothers and sisters to replenish the United Nations Green Climate Fund.
We therefore reiterate the call of Pacific islands for the Secretary-General to appoint a special representative on climate and security.
As was made tragically clear in the Bahamas, our vulnerabilities as SIDS to disasters and climate impacts are unique and threaten to undermine all our sustainable development efforts.
Our collective commitment to leave no country behind also demands that we end our exclusion of Taiwan and its 23 million people, not only here in the General Assembly but also in the range of international bodies that are essential to establishing effective multilateralism, such as the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I am hopeful that they will live in a world that has seized this critical moment in history to avert the worst effects of the climate crisis; a world that has rebalanced its relationship with the land, the atmosphere and the oceans; a world that works with nature and not against her.


  
     601     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PNG_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We share the spirit of this session’s theme of “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” and the priorities you have set, Mr. President.
I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his exemplary leadership, selfless service and stellar work in many important areas, such as climate change, during the past year, and his continued diligent work for the greater good and welfare of we the peoples of the United Nations.
At the regional level, Papua New Guinea was heartened and inspired by his very timely and welcome landmark visit in May to the Pacific region, to bear witness to our sustainable development challenges, vulnerabilities and opportunities and the clarion call to step up the fight and do better, work harder and act more urgently to combat the adverse effects of climate change.
On climate change, let me begin by joining others in conveying my Government’s and my people’s sincere sympathies and condolences to the people and the Government of the Bahamas for the unprecedented loss of lives and devastation caused by Hurricane Dorian.
We support and congratulate the Secretary-General’s Climate Action Summit and the inclusion of youth in championing the fight against climate change.
At the recently concluded fiftieth Pacific Islands Forum Leaders meeting, in Tuvalu, the Pacific leaders agreed to build on the blue Pacific’s call for urgent global climate change action through the Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent Climate Change Action Now.
This instrument is now our moral compass and the authority we will use going forward in the run-up to the twenty-fifth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Climate change is the defining issue of our time.
It requires that all States Members of the United Nations and all stakeholders take urgent and concrete measures individually and collectively under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and through the revision of nationally determined contributions by 2020.
Such an approach will effectively address the adverse impacts of climate change for the sake of our planet.
The important outcomes from the Climate Action Summit earlier this week paves the way for us to take the measures necessary to saving ourselves.
Moreover, it is utterly unfair and unjust for those that contribute the least to greenhouse-gas emissions to pay the highest price.
We take seriously the importance of being a party to the Paris Agreement by adopting the measures needed both domestically and globally.
At the Climate Action Summit, my Government’s three initiatives were accepted under the nature-based solutions track and the resilience and adaptation track.
The nature-based solutions track focuses on harnessing our abundant tropical-rainforest resources as the lungs of the Earth and carbon reservoir through sustainable forest-management practices.
These ends can be met, first, by implementing our national strategy for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, as well as conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks.
Thirdly, we are looking to climate-proof infrastructure in the country; pilot projects in this area are well under way.
Under the Paris Agreement, we commit to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions in the energy sector.
Climate funding is a necessity for us to be able to fully implement the Paris Agreement.
Papua New Guinea wishes to express its appreciation to those Governments and organizations that have pledged additional funding to the Green Climate Fund and encourages others who have the financial capacity to contribute to do so as well.
If our nationally determined contributions are going to be ambitious, we must not be constrained by difficulties in gaining access to climate funds.


  
     602     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_POL_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We will soon be handing over to Chile the presidency of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Our term in office has produced a significant contribution to global climate policy.
At COP 24, held in Poland, the Katowice Rulebook was adopted.
The objective of COP 24 was to provide a manual on how to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Therefore, I would like at this point to thank all the political leaders for their personal commitment and presence in our meetings, both during the COP 24 leaders summit and in the closing stretch of the negotiations in Katowice.
Thanks to the Katowice climate package, the world has at its disposal a set of guidelines on operationalizing the Paris Agreement and taking related action.
The fact that the document crowning COP 24 was adopted unanimously is all the more gratifying.
Let me assure members of the Assembly that Poland will support the European Commission in the implementation of the just transition concept, as defined at COP 24.
Responding to the call for a higher level of ambition on environmental protection, in conjunction with yesterday’s Climate Action Summit, convened by the Secretary-General, on behalf of Poland I have proposed five initiatives that are either already under way or about to be implemented at the national level.
In pursuit of sustainability, the aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and their production will be balanced through their absorption by ecosystems and adaptation to climate change.
First, we have created a programme that is aimed at reducing household emissions.
Secondly, we will seek to reduce emissions from public transportation.
Thirdly, through large-scale afforestation programmes, we want to enhance the absorption of emissions by ecosystems, which should bring us closer to climate neutrality.
Fourthly, we have developed plans to adapt cities to climate change.
First and foremost, Poland emphasizes the issue of a solidarity-based and just, low-carbon transition.


  
     603     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PRK_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of the general debate for this session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, reflects the most essential points of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved by the States Members of the United Nations by 2030.


  
     604     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PRT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Yesterday’s successful Climate Action Summit is an example of such work, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals Summit, the Ocean Conference, the digital cooperation initiative and the Plan of Action to Safeguard Religious Sites.
We also advocate for participation in peacekeeping operations; the adoption of a resolution on a moratorium on the death penalty; engagement in the twenty-fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Chile; the conclusion of the treaty on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction; and the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
We take pride in the launch of the national road map for carbon neutrality 2050, an instrument for economic competitiveness, employment, wealth and social justice.


  
     605     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_PRY_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The adverse effects of climate change have an impact throughout the world.
In that regard, in cooperation with the Green Climate Fund and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Paraguay has recently concluded negotiations to establish a special reforestation fund and to thereby combat extreme poverty, which affects the most vulnerable in society.


  
     606     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_QAT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are all aware that the effects of climate change are a common concern of the international community and pose an existential threat to some countries.
Despite the different situations and circumstances among countries, we need international cooperation today more than ever and must ensure the credibility of multilateral action to counter the challenges of climate change.
In that connection, the State of Qatar has assumed an active role in international efforts on climate change — in partnership with France, Jamaica and the United Nations — and has led the coalition on climate finance and carbon-pricing.


  
     607     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ROU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Undoubtedly, climate change is a global challenge, from the shortage of water and food insecurity to sea-level rise.
Unfortunately, Romania has not been spared by the adverse effects of climate change, but we came to this session of the General Assembly with a sense of hope and responsibility — hope that it is not too late to secure a safe and environment-friendly planet for our children, and responsibility to undertake concrete steps in order to keep the pace with our promises under the Paris Agreement and the rules agreed in Katowice, including by pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5° C above pre-industrial levels.
Our national strategy on climate change has been conceived with the aim of shaping an economy resilient to climate change, with low carbon-dioxide emissions, and able to integrate climate policies through smart economic growth.
Further, advancing the European Union agenda on climate change was a priority for Romania during its mandate as President of the Council of the European Union in the first six months of this year.
The transition to a climate-neutral economy was intensively debated within the European Union, and its long-term strategy on climate change is to be finalized soon.
At the same time, Romania answered the call of the Secretary-General to come up with national initiatives for nine portfolios, entailing concrete actions with the potential to curb greenhouse-gas emissions and increase global action on adaptation and resilience.
A list in this regard was sent to the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for the 2019 Climate Change Summit.
Adaptation tools and mitigation of the negative effects of climate change are parts of the wider strategy of sustainable development at the national and global levels.
In conclusion, let me reaffirm Romania’s full support in the endeavour to galvanize multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion at the General Assembly throughout the seventy-fourth session.


  
     608     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_RUS_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, we have to admit that despite the fact that thanks to the United Nations we have succeeded in preventing a third world war, there are no fewer conflicts and enmity on the Earth, and new and terrible challenges have emerged — international terrorism, drug trafficking, climate change, illegal migration and a growing gap between rich and poor.
Now the future of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START) is in question.
We have also repeatedly invited Washington to begin negotiations on extending the New START Treaty.


  
     609     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_RWA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Never before have we had such well-defined road maps for joint action on development, climate change and global health.
All around us we see the urgency of fulfilling our commitments to slow the pace of global warming and adapt our infrastructure to a changing climate.
One key lesson of yesterday’s Climate Action Summit was that innovative technologies and approaches are allowing us to act without slowing economic growth.
Perhaps the most effective action that countries can take is to ratify and fully implement the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.


  
     610     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SAU_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I had also hoped to review such economic and social challenges facing our world as poverty, climate change, the spread of diseases and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, while highlighting the Kingdom’s positions, perspectives and actions in those areas.


  
     611     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SDN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We support the theme of the current session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, and have launched a comprehensive national development plan based on promoting economic governance, combating corruption and committing to transparency and integrity, as well as judicious planning in terms of natural resources in order to ensure self-sufficiency, better exchanges and smart partnerships with the countries of the region and the world.


  
     612     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SEN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are called upon at this session of the General Assembly to energize multilateral efforts to eradicate poverty, promote high-quality education, take action against climate change and foster inclusion.
We call for the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, including the target of $100 billion per year in support of energy transition and climate-change adaptation.
They are the real challenges that we must tackle together if we are to energize multilateral efforts to eradicate poverty, promote quality education, address climate change and foster inclusion.


  
     613     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SGP_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In such a world, a multilateral approach is not an option but rather a necessity in order for countries to deal with complex global problems, including poverty eradication, pandemics and climate change.
One salient example is climate change.
This week, hundreds of thousands of young people demonstrated peacefully all over the world, including in Singapore, to demand climate action from their leaders.
For its part, Singapore takes climate change very seriously.
Climate change is an existential issue for us.
Like other low-lying island States, we are most vulnerable to rising sea levels.
However, we will also suffer from climate change’s other effects, whether those are new diseases, more extreme weather events, food shortages, forced migration or even wars.
Being so small, Singapore contributes only 0.11 per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions.
Nevertheless, we are committed to doing our full share under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to reduce emissions and mitigate global warming.
We have implemented significant measures in that regard, including a carbon tax, which is the first in South-East Asia and is applied economy-wide with no exemptions.
We will collaborate with partners to improve our understanding of climate change and its impact through research and institutions, such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Specialized Meteorological Centre, which is based in Singapore.
We will also contribute to the efforts of international organizations such as the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Maritime Organization to reduce emissions.
In that regard, I would like to commend the Secretary-General for convening the Climate Action Summit this week.
We are under no illusions that the Paris Agreement target of 1.5°C global warming or less will be easy to achieve.
Moreover, even if we do achieve that, the problem will not be completely solved, as such action will only slow down the rise in sea levels and will not stop it.
However, we must try our best and over time all countries will have to do more to mitigate climate change.
At the same time, we must be serious about preparing early to adapt to climate change.
It is the responsibility of our generation to leave future generations with a habitable planet, both through mitigation and adaptation.


  
     614     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SLB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this session of the General Assembly, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, is therefore both fitting and timely.
Climate change and natural disasters are affecting all our countries.
Our oceans are warming.
Sea levels are rising.
The Pacific island countries and the Caribbean island countries are and always will be at the forefront of the climatic events generated through the changing global climate systems.
The Secretary-General’s visit to the Pacific earlier this year highlighted the gravity of climate change for small island States.
His visit demonstrates his personal commitment to better understanding the plight of the peoples of the Pacific in their struggle against climate change.
It helped him see and understand that climate change is a matter of life and death for the peoples of the Pacific.
The impact of climate change is well documented.
It is also important to reflect on the impact of climate change to date.
Solomon Islands is experiencing an impact of climate change that is three times the global average.
The pace of sea-level rise means that we are continuing to lose islands.
We remain in an endless state of recovery from slow-onset events; this is particularly the case with populations living on low-lying islands.
We need urgent and collective climate action.
The Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent Climate Change Action Now, issued by leaders at the Pacific Islands Forum held in Tuvalu last month, reaffirmed climate change as the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and well-being of our peoples.
We commend the Secretary-General’s Climate Action Summit, convened this week.
However, we are disappointed by the lack of political will on the part of those with the means of implementation to present more ambitious commitments that would put us on a pathway below 1.5°C.
In the current circumstances, we are heading towards a 3°C world.
Solomon Islands has embarked on an exciting journey to further reduce its carbon footprint.
In 2024, we will commission our first 15-megawatt hydropower project, which will reduce fossil-fuel consumption by 70 per cent, the equivalent of 50,600 tons of carbon-dioxide greenhouse-gas emissions.
We continue to call for international partnership to help us meet our conditional emission-reduction targets of 45 per cent by 2030 and 50 per cent by 2050.
While accepting that climate change is the most important challenge facing all countries, and especially Pacific Island countries, I must also express my Government’s concern that the single largest killer of our people today in virtually all our countries is non-communicable diseases (NCDs).
In conclusion, returning to the theme of the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, Solomon Islands sees value in it and believes that we can achieve many things through strategic partnerships and meaningful multilateral and bilateral engagements among and between countries.
The United Nations negotiations on climate change must be concluded without delay.
In my view, this challenge is more urgent right now than climate change.
I submit that the twin fights against climate change and NCDs are ideas whose time has come.


  
     615     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SLE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres, for his overall dedication and commitment to the work of the Organization, including his efforts to advance the urgent need to address climate change.
The theme of the current session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, builds on the commitments we have made over the years.
Allow me to express my country’s sincere appreciation to the Secretary-General for convening the Climate Action Summit in September.
As a country, we are committed to a multilateral approach to fully implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
With the right partnerships, the right attitude and an unflinching commitment to climate financing and continuing multilateral efforts, we can save our planet from the destructive impacts of climate change.
We are committed to promoting peace and security, addressing the underlying causes of fragility and the drivers of conflict, tackling the scourge of climate change and, in turn, building resilience and achieving the 2030 Agenda.


  
     616     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SLV_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must give the floor to our millions of citizens — whether millennial, centennials or people of any age — so that they can offer solutions to the issues of poverty, hunger, climate change and disease, and so on.
We suggest awarding a prize to those whose proposals give us the key to solving the great problems the planet faces, such as energy supply, drought, poverty, hunger, climate change and the many other problems we face.


  
     617     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SMR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I welcome the theme chosen for this session — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — which is a broad and cross-cutting approach, as it deals with human rights, the fight against climate change and sustainable development, to which the Republic of San Marino attaches great importance.
The Secretary-General’s special-edition report also reveals that hunger and malnutrition are far from being resolved, greenhouse gas emissions are continuing to increase, biological diversity is rapidly diminishing, the level of financing for sustainable development is not sufficient and, even at the institutional level, there is a lack of efficiency and strength to respond to the challenges.
Without effective action to contain it, global warming will further inhibit our ability to adapt and increase the sense of vulnerability among large sectors of the world’s population.
My country welcomes the convening of the Climate Action Summit in recent days and the ambitious initiatives that were put forward there.
The effects of climate change represent the greatest challenge of our time, owing to their unprecedented impact on our lives.
No country or community is immune to the destructive effects of global warming, but the poorest and most vulnerable groups already are already suffering the greatest damage.
The special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change indicated that we had 11 years left to change course for future generations and to get global warming under control.
The interlinkages between the climate and the 2030 Agenda must be seen as an opportunity to unleash synergies to drive collective action.
Indeed, while achieving the Sustainable Development Goals will help limit warming to 1.5°C, climate action will likewise support the attainment of the economic and social targets of the Agenda through job creation.
The international community has, without a doubt, faced major challenges over recent years due to increasing migration flows, driven in part by the effects of climate change, which have forced millions of people to seek refuge in other countries, and in part by persecution and armed conflict, as well as by socioeconomic hardship in the form of lack of food, water, education and health services.


  
     618     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SOM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is indeed my sincere belief that the General Assembly is vital in galvanizing multilateral efforts and actions for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and the promotion of inclusivity in all its forms in order to advance our global agenda for people-centred development, common progress and prosperity.
The Government of the Federal Republic of Somalia warmly welcomes this year’s theme of the General Assembly, which reminds us all of the importance of stepping up our efforts through greater international cooperation in order to ensure that we, as nations, individually achieve the Sustainable Development Goals of reducing poverty, improving the quality of education, addressing the adverse effects of climate change and promoting partnerships and inclusivity in all our actions at home.
Partnerships in all their forms are essential if we are to overcome the greatest common challenges of our time, including security, poverty, climate change and sustainability.
It goes without saying that inclusiveness in all of its manifestations must come to the fore if we are to succeed in galvanizing multilateral efforts for global security, poverty eradication, quality education and climate action, alongside the other development priorities.
Security has been the focus of our Government and its greatest public expenditure since I took office because everything else, including poverty eradication, quality education and climate action depends on it.
The establishment of the Directorate of Environment and Climate Change within the Office of the Prime Minister, for example, is a step in the right direction, and we are confident that this Directorate will effectively lead the development and implementation of environmental regulations and policies.
This is evidence of our commitment to climate action for a better, cleaner and more inclusively prosperous environment.
Indeed, climate change threatens to increase the frequency and severity of environmental shocks, and Somalia, with the longest coastline in continental Africa, is already experiencing the effects of rising sea levels and a rising average temperature, which are exacerbated by the effects of degraded lands and deforestation.
Owing to this vulnerability, Somalia’s economy could take much longer to recover than otherwise might be the case, given that it continues to suffer the repetitive occurrence of climate-related hazards.
The lessons learned from our experience is that climate action is urgently needed to reverse the catastrophic environmental damage that poses an existential threat to our collective future.
Let me assure the Assembly that my Government is fully committed to the outcomes of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and, equally, to other multilateral environmental agreements that are dedicated to protecting our planet and safeguarding the future for all.
Achieving this end will allow Somalia to gain access to the valuable and much-needed concessionary resources that would complement our national domestic-revenue mobilization so as to cover the cost of eradicating poverty, improving public services, including quality education and security, and taking effective actions to safeguard our future against the scourge of climate change.
Let me conclude by reiterating Somalia’s strong support for galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education and climate action in all its forms.


  
     619     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SSD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme he has selected for this session — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — strongly resonates not only in my country, but throughout the world at large.
On climate change, the Government of the Republic of South Sudan has updated its nationally determined contribution and will embark on a clean development trajectory by investing in clean energy, by producing 1,000 megawatts of power from hydro, solar, wind and geothermal energy sources and enhancing the resilience of its people by embarking on a smart-climate approach to agriculture.


  
     620     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_STP_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We welcome the theme of this session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, because we believe in multilateralism as a means to solve the enormous and difficult problems facing the globe.
In addition to the consequences of violent extremism, the world faces many other challenges, such as the devastating effects of climate change, which pose serious obstacles to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals to which we all committed in this very Hall in 2015.
We therefore believe that the United Nations must assume its true leadership role by uniting efforts to combat climate change.
Global efforts must undoubtedly continue under the auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and that responsibility must be shared among us all, because we are the ones responsible for safeguarding the future for the generations to come.


  
     621     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SUR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Suriname is also recognized as the joint most carbon-negative country, alongside Bhutan.
It is therefore easy to understand why Suriname — along with many others here present in the Assembly Hall today — is deeply concerned about the effects of our changing global climate.
Is it a coincidence that in less than 3 years, several Caribbean countries have been struck by hurricanes of the highest category, or is it a telling phenomenon revealing that climate change has already become a fact of life with devastating effects?
I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary-General when he says, with regard to climate change, that now is the time for action and not for empty speeches and promises.
Since 2007, HFLD developing countries have received less than $2 billion in climate finance — less than 14 per cent of all climate funds committed.
At that meeting, the Krutu of Paramaribo Joint Declaration on HFLD Climate Finance Mobilization was adopted, representing the collective interests of 27 participating developing countries, which committed to taking action and increasing their access to climate finance in order to maintain their forests intact.


  
     622     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SVK_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those mostly concern climate change but also new technologies, cybernetics or artificial intelligence.
In that regard, I see climate change as the key issue.
If I had to name just one thing that concerns me the most at the global level, it is denial — denial that the climate crisis exists or that it is not that serious.
The scientific evidence is clear: climate change is a fact, and we are running out of time.
But if we act now, we can reduce carbon emissions within 12 years and keep global warming at 1.5°C.
I am very proud that yesterday, at the Climate Action Summit 2019, I could present a credible plan to close the coal mines and transform the entire coal-mining region.
In addition, Slovakia is firmly committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.
The Paris Agreement is central to keeping us on the right track.
Private companies and investors are starting to realize that investment in the green economy can be profitable and economically rational because, instead of undermining economic growth, climate action generates new opportunities for businesses and new jobs for our people.
We must make sure that, in the end, everyone can benefit from climate action, especially the most vulnerable, who bear the burden, but also those affected by the transformation, because the bottom line of development is primarily about the dignity of every human being.
I believe that if we succeed in uniting over our action for climate, we can generate a new sense of solidarity in other areas.


  
     623     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SVN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I want to add Slovenia’s voice to that call for effective multilateralism, specifically focusing on three particular areas — the rule of law and human rights, climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals, and the challenges related to new technologies.
I would also particularly like to address climate change, and especially sustainable development.
The climate crisis is evolving faster than predicted.
The unprecedented mobilization of young people on a global scale, demanding immediate action, followed by the Secretary-General’s initiative to convene the Climate Action Summit, has finally generated a sense of urgency.
The twenty-fifth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held later this year in Chile, will be of critical relevance to humankind and our planet.
We owe it to our children not to become sidetracked from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Climate change is a case in point of the importance of effective multilateralism.
The circular economic model, whereby resources are reduced, reused and recycled, is inextricably linked to the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We will continue to support the implementation of the Paris Agreement.


  
     624     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SWE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The anniversary is an opportunity to celebrate many significant achievements — most recently, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and the sustaining peace agenda.
The climate crisis is the defining issue of our time.
To keep global warming under 1.5°C and prevent the most extreme impacts of climate change, we need to halve global emissions by 2030.
Scientists, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change included, warn of devastating consequences if we do not take immediate action.
Climate change is a driver of conflict.
The European Union has put in place a legally binding climate framework, sending a clear message to the international community about our commitment.
In Sweden, our Climate Act and net-zero emissions target also send a clear signal.
Our goal is to be the first fossil-free welfare nation in the world.
At the Climate Action Summit, together with India and the World Economic Forum, we announced the launch of the Leadership Group for Industry Transition.
This initiative will speed up industry transition to pathways that will ensure that we deliver on the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda.
We are proud to see the commitment of our businesses and financial institutions to aligning with the goals of the Paris Agreement.
Through our development cooperation, Sweden is investing in renewable energy, energy efficiency and climate-sensitive agriculture.
We are the world’s leading per-capita contributor to the Green Climate Fund and have now decided to double that contribution.
The business benefits of science-based climate action are clear.
The Security Council needs to adopt a comprehensive approach to peace, and to include new risks, such as climate change, on its agenda.


  
     625     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SWZ_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The urgency of the theme of the general debate for the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, cannot be overemphasized.
Most contemporary challenges such as terrorism, climate change, migration, transnational organized crime and many others, cannot be effectively addressed without multilateral cooperation.
Globally, eradicating poverty remains our priority and a daunting challenge, especially in the face of climate change and food insecurity, to mention but a few obstacles.
Climate change has serious implications for development prospects everywhere, and even more so on the African continent, where climate extremes have continued to intensify.
The price of not taking prompt action to address climate change is too high.


  
     626     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_SYC_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Because of our shortcomings and inaction, humankind is today threatened by conflict, economic hardship and climate change.
Climate change has become an existential threat, not only to the lives of people in island States but to the world as a whole.
In Seychelles, we are seeing youth-led non-governmental organizations partnering with the Government to prioritize the fight against climate change, pollution and other threats to the environment.
In part, we are harnessing the potential of the oceans through the blue economy to meet our sustainable development goals and climate obligations, as dictated by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Samoa Pathway and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Seychelles will remain at the forefront of the discourse on climate change.
It is unacceptable that 50 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions are produced by 10 per cent of the planet’s wealthiest inhabitants living in the richest nations.
We must translate the political will of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement into decisive action.
Seychelles has challenged the established model of a donor-recipient relationship through innovative financing that promotes ocean conservation and climate action.
Safeguarding the oceans and marine life from climate change, overfishing, plastic pollution and other threats is an urgent global responsibility.


  
     627     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TCD_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this session of the General Assembly — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — is a timely one to assess progress on the implementation of some of our commitments under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
That theme, the relevance of which I applaud, underlines both the weakness of the efforts made to address shared socioeconomic and environmental challenges and the urgent need for greater mobilization of the international community in order to achieve, in accordance with the commitments made within the framework of the 2030 Agenda, the main Sustainable Development Goals, which include the eradication of extreme poverty, access to quality education, the fight against climate change and the reduction of inequalities.
In the absence of vigorous action and the planned resources which have not been mobilized, our shared dream of building a stable and peaceful world where all our peoples flourish together, is giving way to anguish and uncertainty, because the issue of poverty is closely linked to crises and conflicts, migration and climate change.
The lack of tangible results in relation to commitments made also affects the fight against climate change despite the immense hope raised by the historic Paris Agreement.
The serious impact of climate change is felt above all in Africa, particularly in the Sahel, as evidenced by the advancing deserts, the drying and silting up of watercourses such as Lake Chad and the Niger River, increased deforestation, land degradation and so on.
Through its adverse effects, climate change also exacerbates crises and conflicts over natural resources and causes food insecurity and large population displacements.
Given that serious threat, Chad joins many other countries in reiterating its strong call for a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and increased resilience to climate change.
The Paris Agreement is achievable only if it is supported by concrete actions to meet the commitments made by all parties, in line with the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
Our children’s access to quality education is a key driver for a sustainable fight against poverty and climate change.


  
     628     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TGO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Evidently, the scale and acuteness of these new challenges — which are fuelled and perpetuated by wars, sociopolitical crises, poverty, exclusion, environmental degradation and the effects of climate change — call on us to wake up and implement concrete, concerted and pragmatic actions.
That is why I commend the theme chosen for this session of the General Assembly — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — as it responds perfectly to our current concerns and reflects the values that underpin our full adherence to the Charter of the United Nations.
In addition to improving the legal framework to promote good governance and access to health, education and well-being, the issue of climate change and environmental protection is a major concern for my country.
It is the entire international community’s responsibility to demonstrate how closely the issue of climate change is linked to food and health security, poverty reduction, economic growth and human development.
That is why it is crucial for the international community to find appropriate solutions to issues related to climate change.
At this juncture, my country reiterates its support and commitment to the Paris Agreement.
Accordingly, the holding of the Climate Action Summit, which took place in the run-up to the general debate, is to be welcomed.
We hope that the promises made at the Summit will lead to a reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030 and their total neutralization by 2050.
My country stresses the need to better endow the Green Climate Fund so that it can better assist less polluting States that are more exposed to climate change in finding the appropriate means to deal with it.
The persistence of hotbeds of tension, particularly in Africa, the Middle East and the Near East, such emerging issues as terrorism, violent extremism, natural disasters and climate change, and the trends towards nuclear proliferation threaten international peace and security, without which our development efforts cannot prosper.


  
     629     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_THA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the margins of the opening of the seventy-fourth session, our Prime Minister attended three leadership events, thereby reflecting Thailand’s resolute commitment to the respective topics, namely, universal health coverage, climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
On climate change, as Chair of ASEAN, Thailand has pressed successfully for our regional grouping to adopt, for the first time, a collective stand on one of the most critical environmental disasters, namely, marine debris.
We also ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, because we believe that environmental crises are a global problem and that they therefore demand a global solution and a collaborative global effort.
Military conflicts and extreme climate change, both of which trigger ravages and mass migration, exacerbate the rising distrust and disgruntlement that has been thrown into the mix of the anti-globalism narrative and actions.


  
     630     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TJK_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, we are also dealing with an array of new issues and problems, first and foremost of which, in our view, is climate change, which seriously affects the process of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and their targets.
Over the past 60 years, the average annual air temperature in Tajikistan has increased by 1°C.
The negative impact of climate change on the quantity and quality of the world’s freshwater resources is also becoming increasingly evident.
Expanding the use of renewable energy, principally hydroelectricity, contributes to Tajikistan’s economic and social development while keeping harmful emissions into the atmosphere as low as possible.
Of those, the most urgent are the threats of global terrorism, climate change, environmental degradation, acute shortages of resources and the growing gap between poor and rich countries and population groups.


  
     631     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TKM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The implementation of international agreements on climate change reached in the framework of the United Nations is a major focus for my country.
With a view to mobilizing activity aimed at fulfilling our commitments under the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the President of Turkmenistan approved our updated national strategy on climate change on 23 September, the very day of the Climate Action Summit in New York.


  
     632     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TLS_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Both the theme and the priorities established for the session reflect the major global challenges that we face, namely, the eradication of poverty, respect for human rights, inclusion, conflict prevention and climate change.
We are deeply grateful to Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for convening the Climate Action Summit and bringing the world’s attention to the grave crisis facing humankind.
Like all other small island developing States (SIDS), Timor-Leste feels the effects of climate change on our coastal zones, crop yields due to the increasingly prolonged dry seasons, and the destruction caused by the intensity of natural disasters.
We need to save our planet from the effects of climate change and global warming.
Unfortunately, to date, we have not changed our behaviour enough to prevent climate change on our planet.
However, if we work together, we believe that in the few years that remain we can ensure that the Earth will undergo an average temperature increase of no more than 1.5°C.
And although our emissions are below 0.003 per cent of global greenhouse-gas emissions, Timor-Leste is committed to contributing to global mitigation efforts by promoting such renewable energies as those derived from hydro, solar or biomass sources.
My country’s Government is currently working on policies, laws and regulations related to climate change, including disaster-risk-management policies and a law on renewable energy.
We call on all nations, especially major emitters, to also adopt the necessary measures to stop global warming.
Five high-level summits — the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, the high level-meeting on universal health coverage, the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development, the High-level Review of the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action Pathway and the Climate Action Summit — have alerted us to the huge challenges facing us today, which require collective action, cooperation, joint efforts, renewed political will and solidarity so that we can effectively ensure that all our citizens, including women, children and the elderly, can benefit from the promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and live in dignity and peace.


  
     633     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TON_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

My delegation and I congratulate the President on his four priorities to guide our work during this session, namely, promoting international peace and security, in particular conflict prevention; strengthening global action to tackle climate change, which is integral to the effective implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); accentuating inclusion, human rights and the empowerment of youth and women; and promoting partnerships for advancing the achievement of the SDGs, which are interlinked, very timely and relevant to addressing, during his tenure, the challenges of our time, which we fully support.
Tonga welcomed the convening of the Climate Action Summit earlier this week.
My country engaged fully in that seminal gathering of leaders to again give prominence to the threats posed by climate change, with its direct links to international peace and security, and thereby to our sustainable development aspirations, in support of SDG 13 and its targets.
The 1.5°C limit is the heart of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and, although my country, along with our Pacific small island developing States neighbours as a whole, contributes not even close to 1 per cent of global warming, we remain committed to the Agreement.
Securing climate financing is the main priority for Tonga, as without it no action on our nationally determined contributions is possible.
We welcome the announcement by the United Kingdom of its intention to double its contribution to the Green Climate Fund.
Pacific leaders in Tuvalu last month endorsed the strongest statement to date on climate change.
The Kainaki II Declaration declared a climate-change crisis in the Pacific Islands region and called for urgent action to reduce global greenhouse-gas emissions and prevent catastrophic global warming and disasters.
Climate change is not only a political issue for us, but also one of survival.
The fact that climate change is an existential threat and a matter of international peace and security was again endorsed by Pacific leaders through their decision to develop the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent.
We continue to support the work of the Group of Friends on Climate and Security.
We continue to recognize the important nexus between the climate and the ocean, and furthermore continue to note with concern the devastating impacts of climate change on our marine environment.
We look forward to deliberations on this link in Chile, at the twenty-fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, later this year.
Important issues of baselines that determine our maritime boundaries, once established under the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea, should not be affected and should remain unchanged, despite the effects of sea-level rise.
Our sovereignty must not be compromised by the effects of climate change, and we continue to welcome and support the work of the International Law Commission on this critically important and timely issue for consideration of the Sixth Committee of the General Assembly.
Tonga is also pleased to continue in its capacity as an elected Vice-President of the Assembly of the Small Island Developing States Sustainable Energy and Climate Resilience Initiative, on behalf of Pacific SIDS members.
Finally, sustainable development, whether it be through good health and well-being, climate action, life below water or affordable and clean energy, inter alia, can be realized only through the achievement and maintenance of international peace and security.
We continue to look to the Security Council to protect the innocent from threats to international peace and security in all their forms, be they traditional threats such as armed conflict or newer threats such as climate change, rising sea levels and health epidemics, to ensure that no one is left behind.


  
     634     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TTO_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We continue to note with alarm the number of persons living in poverty, the innumerable threats posed by the effects of unmitigated climate change and the continued exclusion of the most vulnerable in our societies with respect to access to education, social protection and health care.
We have witnessed extreme flooding, droughts, coral bleaching, rising sea levels, heatwaves and devastating hurricanes with increasing strength and frequency in many parts of the world.
It is against that backdrop that I welcome the opportunity to share the perspectives of Trinidad and Tobago on the appropriately selected theme of this general debate, namely “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
We have no doubt that climate change represents a very real threat that jeopardizes our pursuit of sustainable development.
In the circumstances, my Government is moving towards the deployment of a multi-pronged approach to adapt to and mitigate the negative impacts of climate change.
Trinidad and Tobago recognizes that climate change adversely affects all countries, regardless of how much they contribute to global emissions.
In that respect, I wish to reiterate my Government’s unwavering commitment to addressing the adverse impacts associated with climate change through a combination of collaborative approaches, improved partnerships and networking with stakeholders in order to meet our international obligations, in line with our national laws, policies and priorities.


  
     635     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TUN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — reflects our firm belief in the work of multilateral mechanisms, foremost among which is the United Nations, as the best way to fulfil our joint hopes and aspirations for peace, comprehensive sustainable development and prosperity for all.
The gravity of the common development, social and environmental challenges facing our countries and peoples today confirms our urgent need to work together as an international community to entrench the principle of collective solidarity, with a view to putting an end to poverty and marginalization and to promoting social integration, empowering women, providing better education and fighting the effects of climate change.


  
     636     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TUR_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, the international community is gradually losing its ability to find lasting solutions to such challenges as terrorism, hunger, misery and climate change, all of which threaten the future of all of us.
We have no doubt that the theme for the seventy- fourth session of the General Assembly is fitting in that regard: “ Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
At a time when 13 people lose their lives every minute owing to air pollution and when global warming threatens our very future, we cannot afford to remain indifferent.


  
     637     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TUV_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also want to express the appreciation of the people and Government of Tuvalu to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Antonio Guterres, for visiting Tuvalu in May this year to see first-hand our extreme vulnerabilities to climate change and to build momentum towards the successful Climate Action Summit, which we all witnessed and participated in earlier this week.
Tuvalu wishes to acknowledge his incredible energy and commitment to saving our planet and humanity from the adverse impacts of climate change.
I congratulate you, Mr. President, on the priority that you have given to multilateralism, poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion by making them the theme of the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly.
The outcome of our leaders’ summit, the Pacific Islands Forum Communique and the Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent Climate Action Now, are strategically geared towards the achievement of those same objectives.
However, the adverse impacts of climate change continue to impede our development.
My country is in the front line of climate change.
The rising sea level presents a direct existential threat to my country, which is at no more than 3 metres above the sea level.
Agriculture is now difficult in most places and the rising temperature is damaging our reefs and fisheries.
A landmark United Nations report released on Wednesday this week predicts that the sea level rise could reach 30 to 60 centimetres by the year 2100 even if countries step up emission cuts and global warming is limited to well below 2°C.
We applaud the determination of our young people to address climate change.
Earlier this week, young people from my country participated in the programmes of the Youth Climate Summit, including hosting a side event.
On Wednesday of this week, a report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights on her visit to Tuvalu confirmed the very real risk of climate change to our culture rights.
The 1.5°C target is no longer enough to save us.
A target lower than 1.5°C is required to save the small island developing States.
The target of 2°C is now irrelevant and a senseless target that will not save our planet and our future generations.
We therefore urge the United Nations process, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), to recognize the three recent approved Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) special reports on global warming of 1.5°C, climate change and land, and the ocean in a changing climate.
For underdeveloped and small island developing countries, mitigation and adaptation are beyond our capacities and resources.
Tuvalu has committed to an ambitious nationally determined contribution target of 100 per cent renewable energy in our electricity generation sector by 2025.That is a very ambitious target for a country that makes a negligible contribution to climate change.
We have also set up a climate change survival fund that is regulated by an act of Parliament.
If we are to win the race against climate change, developed nations must lift the deprived with financial and technical resources.
In many countries, renewable energy is now cheaper than coal and fossil fuel.
I want to take this opportunity to express my country’s sincere appreciation to countries that have shown a commitment to the 2050 zero emissions target and increased their contributions to the Green Climate Fund.
I wish to acknowledge the efforts of notable members of the Security Council in bringing climate change to the core of its peace and security agenda.
It is our humble hope that the entire Security Council membership can agree to have climate change as a permanent item on its agenda.
I therefore wish to reaffirm the commitment of our Pacific leaders to developing international law with the aim of ensuring that once a Forum member’s maritime zones are delineated in accordance with the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the member’s maritime zones cannot be challenged or reduced as a result of sea level rise and climate change.
Our sovereignty cannot be compromised by climate change.
As Members have heard, I have spoken about climate change more than any other part of the theme of our seventy-fourth session.
Multilateralism, poverty eradication, quality education, health and inclusion are very important issues but for a small low-lying island atoll country such as Tuvalu, climate change is also important to our development.
To us, climate change is not only an environmental issue.
It affects all factors and sectors of our development, so much so that our sustainable future and survival depend on climate change more than anything else.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that Tuvalu strongly believes that our collective efforts to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in order to ensure global peace, security and prosperity will be severely compromised unless we are committed to immediate climate change action, as demanded by our youth and young people, and the scientific reports of the IPCC, the authoritative scientific body of the UNFCCC.


  
     638     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_TZA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme of this year’s Assembly session is “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
Climate change and environmental conservation are a priority of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, 38.12 per cent of whose total land is designated as protected.
Furthermore, in order to reduce the impact of climate change, the United Republic of Tanzania is investing in renewable energy.
In that regard, the United Republic of Tanzania once again reiterates its commitment to multilateralism and calls on all members to embrace multilateralism, not only in order to eradicate poverty, improve the quality of education, combat climate change and achieve inclusion, but also to maintain international peace and security and achieve a just and better world.


  
     639     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_UGA_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Setting our world on a sustainable course requires that we urgently address one of the defining challenges of our time, which is climate change.
Climate change affects each and every one of us.
Climate financing remains crucial because investments are required to significantly reduce emissions, adapt to the adverse effects and reduce the impacts of a changing climate.
While the world focuses on climate change, biodiversity loss continues to escalate.
However, climate change and biodiversity loss are intrinsically linked, and both must be addressed simultaneously.
Biodiversity is part of an intricate web of life that provides $125 trillion per year in ecosystem services to humans, such as clean drinking water, clean air, fertile soils, climate stabilization and crop pollination.


  
     640     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_URY_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

In my view, there are three cross-cutting vectors within the Sustainable Development Goals — the elimination of poverty, the fight against climate change and quality education.
Secondly, with regard to the fight against climate change, if we are to succeed, we must be aware that the harmful effects of climate change directly affect the increase in poverty and global economic and social inequality.
By 2050, climate change could displace 140 million people in sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and Latin America alone.
Uruguay reaffirms its willingness to work together with all countries committed to the protection and safeguarding of the environment, in accordance with the principles established in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, adopted in 1992, and the commitments made in the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and makes a fervent appeal to Governments to seriously address this real threat to the stability and equilibrium of the globe.
In this regard, my delegation reiterates its full support for the twenty- fifth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Santiago in December, and congratulates Costa Rica on its commitment to the environment and its efforts to accelerate climate action at the pre-Conference meeting it will host in October.
Given the risk that climate change poses, Uruguay has been adopting policies that place it among the most advanced countries of the world in the field, including its salient national energy policy through which it achieved generating 98 per cent of its electricity through renewable energy sources.
As nations, we have the responsibility of pooling our efforts to agree on educational policies that allow us to deepen the integration of climate change throughout the educational process and to contribute to increasing the awareness of our peoples with respect to the challenges it poses.
Only in this way will we be better prepared to face its negative effects and therefore achieve a more resilient international society that is less vulnerable, with greater capacity to adapt to change and climate variability and more aware and responsible given the challenge.


  
     641     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_VAT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

When it comes to care for our common home and the threat posed by climate change, the international community has been galvanizing its multilateral collaboration.
We saw it with the Paris Agreement in 2015.
We witnessed it again in December in Katowice, with the adoption of the Katowice rulebook to implement the Paris Agreement.
There is a need for more effective multilateral cooperation between the developed and developing world, for example, on financing measures to curb climate change, on technology transfer, on energy issues and on how to apply the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capacities in burden-sharing.
As encouraged by Pope Francis at the Climate Action Summit some days ago, we have to pursue this effort with honesty, courage and responsibility.


  
     642     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_VCT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The rapid acceleration of climate change is the menacing manifestation of a failed multilateralism.
As emissions continue to increase, legally binding limits are recast as voluntary targets and the worst offenders hypocritically highlight the specks of pollution in others’ eyes to distract from the beam in their own.
At the same time, many needlessly suffer and die while indisputably urgent global action is intentionally thwarted by selfish short-termists and convenient climate-change deniers.
Sadly, hurricanes are merely the most violent manifestation of the insidious effects of climate change.
For us, the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change are a composite, integrated whole on which our very existence depends.
This week, the Secretary-General held a Climate Action Summit to confront our persistent paralysis in the face of the accelerating climate catastrophe.
Stripped of the crafted eloquence, the Summit reconfirmed that there are basic litmus tests for a commitment to climate action — the enforcement of binding emissions targets aimed at keeping global warming below 1.5°C, investments in clean air and renewable energy, and the provision of easily accessible adaptation financing that prioritizes the most vulnerable nations.
Before the fury of Mother Nature, our islands are equally vulnerable and must be equally assisted by any mechanism that purports to address the impact of climate change.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has long considered the failure of major emitters to set and honour ambitious mitigation pledges to be an act of hostility towards the very existence of small island developing States.
As hundreds lie dead in the Bahamas and thousands more climate refugees are denied safe, temporary haven in the industrialized capitals of the nearest major polluter, those acts of hostility are brought into sharper relief.
Amid the ominous ubiquity of climate change, the unpredictability of escalating trade wars and the daily uncertainties of erratic global policy shifts, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines must seek increasingly creative pathways in pursuit of its people’s right to development.


  
     643     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_VEN_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

We express our solidarity with the brotherly Caribbean people of the Bahamas, recently fallen victim to the ravages of climate change.


  
     644     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_VNM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Together, we have established important strategies and frameworks for global development efforts, such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
No nation is immune to the immediate and long-term impacts of climate change, environmental degradation or pandemics.
In that context, we welcome the timely theme set by the President for this session — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”.
Viet Nam is strongly committed to the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and in particular is taking concrete steps to put an end to single-use plastics by 2025.


  
     645     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_VUT_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would also like to convey my sincere condolences to the Government and the people of France following the death of Mr. Jacques Chirac, a friend of Vanuatu and a well-known figure in the fight against global warming.
The theme of the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly — “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion” — is relevant, given the challenges currently faced by the international community, and fully in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We meet as the world faces complex challenges: conflicts with humanitarian crises are on the rise, there is an increased risk of an arms race, terrorism remains a threat, human rights violations are widespread, the environment is undergoing rapid change due to the impacts of climate change, the technological revolution is redefining the future of work and the global economy is increasingly uncertain.
We are also in a world where, while some fear the effects of climate change, many are dying of hunger, the atrocities of wars, natural disasters and non-communicable diseases.
The recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change highlighted that the world is moving towards a rise in temperature of 3°C and that small island developing States, such as Vanuatu, will continue to face natural disasters, sea-level rise, droughts and ocean acidification.
For small island developing States, climate change remains the greatest threat to achieving the goals we have set.
Even though we are not a major contributor of greenhouse gases, we are committed to working with the international community to redouble our efforts to reduce the rise in global temperatures, so that, by 2030, 100 per cent of our electricity will be generated by renewable and sustainable energy.
The health of our oceans is threatened by irresponsible human activities and climate change, which is particularly worrisome for Vanuatu, a part of whose economy depends on marine resources.
Secondly, we must increase funding for addressing climate change, provide for the rapid replenishment of such financial facilities as the Green Climate Fund, and simplify access to those funds.
In August, the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum met in Tuvalu and adopted the Kainaki II Declaration on the need to act quickly to combat climate change.
Vanuatu supports regional commitments endorsed by the Blue Pacific and made 10 global appeals for urgent action on climate change.
In recent years, the world has undergone rapid and profound changes that present complex challenges, including climate change.
We must raise our ambitions and renew our commitment through concrete actions if we are to win the fight against poverty and climate change and to ensure inclusive economic growth that takes into account our people’s aspirations to well-being.
The development concerns of small island States, whether in regard to climate change, the ocean or poverty, are real, and we will resolve them only at the global level.


  
     646     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_WSM_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Issues from addressing a climate emergency to providing rights-based universal health coverage and calling for increased resources to fast track collective action, underpinned by a desire for a peaceful and secure world, are the pillars of the SAMOA
As a Pacific island leader, today my main message will again be, as it has consistently been for the past 21 consecutive years that I have attended the general debate in this Hall, on climate change — the embodiment of Samoa’s realities, aspirations and priority policy concern now and well into the future.
When SIDS first told the world that their coastlines were eroding, the sea level was rising and climate change was humanly induced, some Member States scorned the notion and did not take our concerns seriously.
Yet when the world’s top scientists — including some of their own nationals — scientifically validated our concerns, including in the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the imperative of keeping global warming below 1.5 °C, some countries refused to accept the evidence and continue to use every opportunity to discredit such reports.
Climate change is real.
Climate change is here.
Sadly, it could lead to the demise of some sovereign nations that are low-lying atolls and small island States.
There is a misguided notion that portrays climate change as a concern only of the small island developing States; nothing could be further from the truth.
Climate change crosses borders uninvited and does not discriminate by size or economic status.
Climate change will impact all of us sooner or later.
Climate change is a global problem requiring a decisive response from the world community.
The challenges posed by and solutions to climate change are already common knowledge, yet we have failed to deliver the ambitious global actions that are necessary to address the root causes of climate change through compromise.
We must accept basic climate logic.
We need to shift the focus in the climate change relationship from a donor-victim to a partnership approach.
Owing to the universality of climate change, partnerships should provide the impetus to finding solutions in a decisive manner.
We must work together with a sense of urgency and commitment in order to address climate change now.
The United Nations remains our last and best hope to provide the political will and commitment necessary to turn the tide against climate change.
The cooperation of every country will be necessary if we are to win the climate change battle.
The United Nations remains uniquely suited to the pursuit and coordination of global initiatives to attain those objectives, including efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion, as highlighted in the theme of this year’s session.
The Secretary-General’s visit to the Pacific this year was timely, given his leadership in calling for ambitious and transformational climate action.
The visit allowed him to see and experience first-hand the scale of the challenges facing Pacific small island countries, and we commend his determination to share the messages of the Pacific peoples through the recently concluded Climate Action Summit.
The Secretariat and agencies of the United Nations are key partners for the blue Pacific continent in addressing some of our regional priorities, such as climate change, resilience, oceans, fisheries, gender equality, human rights, SIDS and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Building on synergies and addressing gaps to ensure better prioritization will definitely help to galvanize support for implementing the SDGs, thereby addressing poverty eradication, supporting quality education, mobilizing climate action and leading to more effective inclusion.
In addition to the climate crisis, we see continued conflicts, rising terrorism, disrupted peace processes, mass displacements, trade wars and growing tensions worldwide.


  
     647     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ZMB_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

The theme for this session, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, presents an opportunity to re-examine our priorities, redefine our mission and sharpen our vision as we approach the seventy-fifth anniversary of this Organization.
Zambia applauds the leadership that the United Nations provides in tackling climate change, as was illustrated only a few days ago by the hosting of the Climate Action Summit.
Climate change frustrates efforts to raise the standards of living for the world’s poor.
Scientists have spoken and we have seen with our own eyes the devastating impact that climate change has had on our environment.
Therefore, opposite climatic extremes occur in the same neighbourhood.
The impact of climate change requires global collaborative efforts and support for mitigation and adaptation strategies.
As a developing country, Zambia needs assistance to enhance its capacity in key areas, such as scientific research, early warning, rapid response and the transfer of appropriate technologies to help cope with the negative impact of climate change.
In addition, scaling up global efforts to address climate change should certainly include providing increased accessibility to financial support, in particular for countries with limited resources, in order to enable them to make their fair contribution to the global effort and also bear the general climate-change-induced cost burdens.


  
     648     
   
FILE: UNGA74_2019_ZWE_74_2019_CLIMATE.txt
  

Embedded in our aspirations is a strong sense of urgency for us to eradicate poverty, achieve quality and relevant education, create employment for women and youth, and mitigate the cross-cutting impact of climate change on our society and economy.
The theme of the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly, “Galvanizing multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion”, is most appropriate and timely.
As the climate crisis continues, the world is changing before our eyes.
For us in southern Africa, Tropical Cyclone Idai recently served as a reminder that the impact of climate change and the damage it does to humankind and life on Earth are dire and irreparable.
The impact of climate change has affected not only our agricultural productivity and food security but also our hydropower- generation capacity and overall economic recovery, growth and development.


  
     649     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_AFG_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change has effected another type of violence and suffering on our people.
We need regional solutions based on international models to address the problem of climate change.
We need frameworks for the future that present pragmatic solutions for collectively addressing and solving the five drivers of turmoil, particularly global terrorism and climate change.


  
     650     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ALB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Food security, poverty eradication, economic development, climate change and gender equality are at stake, exacerbating the existing vulnerabilities and inequalities within and among countries.
Albania is working hard to achieve the United Nations global goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent in the next decade, and to net zero emissions by 2050, in accordance with Paris Agreement.
In addition, we have adopted the Strategy on Climate Change and the Mitigation Action Plan of greenhouse gas emissions.


  
     651     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_AND_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The organization has led the way in tackling universal challenges and created an institutional framework that has made significant progress in areas of such importance as human rights, poverty eradication, the consolidation of democratic institutions, the fight against climate change and the promotion of sustainable development, and it has also provided protection for the most vulnerable in armed conflicts.
Development has been viewed as a formula to eradicate poverty, to fight against inequality and injustice, and to initiate climate action.
Mr. President,
The fight against climate change continues to be one of the priorities of Andorra, a country with a special awareness of the natural environment.
This year was to be a significant year for climate action through the plan for a new scenario of understanding, marked by the ratification of new objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, within the framework of the Climate Change Conference COP26 that was to be held in the United Kingdom.
Andorra approved the Paris Agreement of 2015 without any doubt or hesitation, and we passed a law on Energy Transition and the Fight against Climate Change that reflects our contribution to the Paris Agreement.
Indeed, we were one of the first countries to establish a plan to reduce emissions because we have experience in working towards becoming a sustainable country since we are aware that we must preserve our resources and our natural environment for future generations.
For this reason, we will spare no effort in the fight against climate change.
Another action that removes any doubt there may be about our conviction and our commitment to the fight against climate change in all its areas is the role we have been playing heading the Pro Tempore Secretariat of the Ibero-American Summit for a period of two years under the motto “Innovation for Sustainable Development-
Far from being an ideal world, we know we must face up to challenges such as the persistence of conflicts that have still not been resolved, bloody scenarios, an imbalanced world from which poverty has not disappeared, where famine is on the increase, where access to health is not universal and where climate change is the clearest sign of structural deficiencies; in short, a world where the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has several readings and applications.


  
     652     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ARE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
We must continue focusing on coordinating our action to provide humanitarian and economic assistance to the states affected by conflicts or by other issues such as climate change and the pandemic.


  
     653     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ARG_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We firmly believe that a collective commitment is needed to achieve the swift and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement.


  
     654     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ATG_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Never before, has the world had such ample technical and financial resources to address the challenges facing all mankind, including the ravages of Climate Change, pandemics, food security, malnutrition, hunger and poverty.
The pandemic has added to the dangers of Climate Change which is, as pernicious as the COVID-19 pandemic in its reach, and insidious in its impact.
The poor and the vulnerable are already the first to suffer from the economic impact of COVID-19 and Climate Change, but the rich have not been spared.
Yet, even though the countries of the Caribbean are among the greatest victims of the profligacy of others, in relation to the creation of Climate Change and its effects; and, although our economies are among the worst impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, in whose creation we played no part; we are denied a voice in international decision-making and we are subjected unfairly to the will of others.


  
     655     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_AUS_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

As signatories to the Kyoto and Paris Accords we are reducing our carbon emissions, effectively.
Most recently Australia beat our Kyoto target commitments by 430 million tonnes of CO2 abatement.


  
     656     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_AUT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Cyber warfare and the risk of failing technological governance,
¥	bioterrorism,
¥	new geopolitical tensions due to an increasingly polycentric
global system
¥	and climate change as the potential future super-crisis.
Be it climate change, nuclear disasters or cyber crime.


  
     657     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_AZE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have launched efficient measures to tackle the problem of freshwater shortage due to the climate change.
Azerbaijan has ratified the Paris Agreement, with a voluntary obligation to achieve a 35 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to the base year 1990.


  
     658     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BDI_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

More than ever, the world we live in today requires a consensus approach to addressing major challenges, such as climate change, terrorism, the peaceful settlement of conflicts, the reform of the Security-Council, migration and the management of health crises.
With regard to climate, it is necessary to recall that the planet, on which we live and will live for generations to come, is facing a crisis that is worsening by the day with the dramatic rise of climate sceptics.
The climate crisis is putting decades of progress at risk and is jeopardizing all the projects we have undertaken to bring about inclusive and sustainable development, while, at the same time, the clock continues click without waiting for us to act.
The pandemic has exposed the vulnerabilities of today’s world and highlighted the broad divides in national and global development efforts, such as high levels of poverty and inequality, raging climate change and the continued discrimination of the elderly, poor communities, women and girls, all of which erode social cohesion.


  
     659     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BEL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, an ever-increasing number of regions of the world experience the health, security and humanitarian implications of climate change and the degradation of biodiversity.
Melting polar ice is leading to the militarization of the Arctic.
The impact of climate change underscores the social, political, economic and environmental causes of conflict.
The climate emergency is a challenge to peace.
The Sustainable Development Goals and, more generally, the 2030 Agenda are essential tools for responding to the global challenges we face — be they poverty, inequality and climate and environmental degradation.
Trust in our courage, resilience, knowledge and responsible behaviour, in combination with our scientific progress, to mitigate climate change.
The steps taken to discuss new security threats, such as climate change, are encouraging.


  
     660     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BEN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Multilateralism, which enabled the United Nations to provide the world with the Paris Climate Agreement, should be the right tool for achieving this objective.
The measures planned within that framework are complementary to the objectives and priorities contained in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
“The appeal I launched on 15 November 2016 in Marrakech at the Conference of States Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was aimed at creating an international research centre to address the effects of climate change on agriculture, received a favourable response from States.
“I take this opportunity to commend the States and regional groups, along with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change secretariat, who are sparing no effort to reach the consensus necessary for the effective establishment of the centre.


  
     661     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BFA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Secretary-General,
On January 22, you presented your 2020 priorities to the General Assembly, identifying what you called the four “horsemen of the apocalypse” that are the global geostrategic tensions, the “existential” climate crisis, the growing mistrust among people everywhere and the “dark side” of the digital world.
The tragic floods in our country and several other countries on the continent in recent weeks remind us of the need for stronger commitment to the multilateral approach, as embodied by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     662     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BGD_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
The pandemic is worsening the pre-existing vulnerabilities of climate- vulnerable countries.
As the current President of the Climate Vulnerable Forum (CVF) and the V-20 Group of Ministers of Finance, Bangladesh would lead the Forum to map out a sustainable and climate-resilient pathway out of the crisis.


  
     663     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BGR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

In early 2020, the UN Secretary-General outlined four threats to humanity:
¥	geopolitical tensions and devastating conflicts;
¥	the climate crisis;
¥	growing global mistrust, and
¥	the dark side of the digital world.
The statements of the Alliance for Multilateralism, which Bulgaria joined on 26 September 2019, are in line with the four directions for UN action announced by the Secretary-General — cybersecurity, climate, security, and the fight against lethal autonomous weapons systems.
As a member of the United Nations and the European Union, we are ready to take on our responsibilities:
¥	Supporting the leading role of the UN in multilateral cooperation to tackle the global pandemic;
¥	Actively working to implement the European Union’s priorities and actions in response to the pandemic, participating at the same time in initiatives for a global response to this challenge;
¥	As an important participant and mediator in the integration processes in Southeast Europe;
¥	Contributing to peacekeeping operations and ensuring unhindered access
to humanitarian assistance;
¥	As a constructive member of the Human Rights Council for 2019-2021;
¥	And an active member of the ECOSOC for the period 2021-2023;
¥	Implementing the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the
Paris Agreement.
We support the efforts within the Normandy format to achieve progress in implementing the Minsk agreements.
The full implementation of the Agenda 2030, the Paris Agreement and the Addis Ababa Action Plan are critical to preparing the world for future systemic shocks.


  
     664     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BHS_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President:
When I addressed the Assembly last year, in the aftermath of Hurricane Dorian, I implored world leaders to treat the global climate emergency as the greatest challenge facing humanity.
Mr. President:
Globally, we continue to see unprecedented climatic and environmental challenges.
Scientific reviews reveal that sixty per cent of the ocean area is impacted by adverse human activity including overfishing, pollution and acidification from chemicals.


  
     665     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BLZ_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is worthy of note that, pre-COVID-19 Belize was contending with economic decline caused by ongoing climate impacts such as a prolonged drought and its impact on primary sector output, along with continued challenges caused by sargassum inundation on our marine spaces.
Regretfully, the international response to the COVID pandemic, not unlike its response to the climate catastrophe, continues to be tepid with the weaker nations and peoples having to bear the brunt of the ravages of the global missteps.
We pay in the lost decades of development and development potential as temperatures rise and so too the seas around us.
The stakes could not be higher — they include all that the United Nations in its seventy five years has worked towards including the vaunted 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the Paris Agreement.
We must therefore as nations rise up in unison to the challenge to reset the global trajectory for planet and people, in line with what we have already agreed to do under our multilateral agenda: eradicate poverty, secure our climate future, and ensure human rights and justice for all.
The Secretary-General of the United Nations has championed six climate- related actions to shape the recovery and the work ahead.
They are about sustaining growth and transitioning to a climate resilient environmentally sensitive global economy.
These principles if operationalized, will take us well beyond recovery and set us on a pathway that will jumpstart our climate rescue and safeguard our children’s future.
That future depends on holding global warming to well below 1.5 C.
Therefore as a second challenge, we must keep pressure on major emitters to increase their climate ambition and accelerate climate action for 1.5C.
2020 is the deadline to bring forward new climate plans with strengthened targets for climate action and a strategy to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
But we are yet to see the level of ambition needed to bend the emissions curve and close the mitigation gap for 1.5.
Belize commends China for its announcement to pursue a path of carbon neutrality by 2060 and looks forward to its forthcoming climate plans.
Belize urges the United Kingdom as the incoming President of the twenty-sixth climate change conference, the European Union, and the United States of America to put their best plans forward before we close out the year.
As Belize stated in the Placencia Ambition Forum, small island developing states resolve to deliver their own ambitious climate plans and indeed we have been the trailblazers.
Belize too will be coming forward with its climate plan.
Our nationally determined contribution will feature our commitment to enhance nature based solutions amid the growing global awareness of the potential of ecosystems to contribute to raising climate ambition and foster sustainable development.
Biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation like climate change are occurring at unprecedented rates.
As is evident from the foregoing actions, our objective whether it is in recovering better, increasing climate ambition, or reversing biodiversity loss, is to safeguard the sustainable development agenda.
Worse yet, for countries like my own, we are concerned that the global policy responses and the paucity in action on persistent challenges from climate to biodiversity will entrench poverty.
Just as we must be sure to match our stimulus to our climate goals, we must do the same for our development goals.
My country as Chair of the AOSIS therefore calls for a SIDS Compact for Access to Finance with specific policy options that would address:
~ liquidity, solvency and enable a green, resilient recovery for SIDS ~ efficient access to finance as well as increased mobilization and expanded provision of concessionary and grant based finance
~ innovative sources of finance and facilitated private sector engagement for SIDS; and
~ Increased access to climate finance to address imminent needs of SIDS for adaptation and to address loss and damage as a result of irreversible impacts of climate change
This SIDS Compact is for all small island developing states, no matter where we fall on the anachronistic development chain.
Disappointingly so, the members of the AOSIS have seen this time and again as we have tirelessly advocated for collective and ambitious climate action with an urgency of now and all we have to show for it is incremental progress.


  
     666     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BRA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Even as one of the world’s ten largest economies, we account for only 3 per cent of carbon emissions worldwide.
Accordingly, Brazil made every effort at the COP25 in Madrid to establish, under the provisions of the Paris Agreement, an effective international carbon market.


  
     667     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BRB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Globally, we are witnessing an increased focus on systemic racial injustices, economic and social inequities, transnational crime, terrorism, human trafficking, increased human displacement, rising autocracies, violence against women and the climate crisis, to name but a few.
Mr, President, nothing more starkly exemplifies this imbalance of power like climate change.
Severe weather events are occurring across the globe and are making our climate mitigation and adaptation efforts even more urgent.
It is no secret that the greatest contributors to the climate crisis do not bear the consequences proportionally, and consequently they are not incentivized to decrease their greenhouse gas emissions.
Barbados, for its part, is not postponing its climate ambition.
Barbados will be fossil-fuel free by 2030.
The United Nations must take greater steps to strengthen and revitalize the climate agenda.
The challenges of sustainable development and creating resilience to climate change will assume even greater importance for our deliberations and negotiations.
I take this opportunity to express Barbados’ appreciation to the host of COP- 26, the United Kingdom, for doubling its contribution to the Green Climate Fund to £1.44 billion.
We are of the view that the need for adequate climate finance in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be overstated.


  
     668     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BTN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

So today, when the world is dealing with issues of climate change, we are grateful for the wise decisions that kept Bhutan carbon negative.
Like climate change, COVID-19 also knows no borders, and similarly affects developing countries disproportionately.


  
     669     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_BWA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate Change
Mr. President,
While COVID-19 is a devastating pandemic, which caught the world unaware and ill-prepared, Climate Change is a phenomenon we are well aware of, and can mitigate against its repercussions.
We long declared Climate Change an existential threat, and committed to restrain its rapid devastation.
Botswana, a semi-arid country with erratic rainfall and frequent droughts, attaches great importance to Goal 13 (Climate Action).
These climatic conditions affect livelihoods by impeding food production.
In order to strengthen mitigation and adaptation, my Government is developing a Climate Change Response Policy and a National Adaptation Plan.
Working with civil society, academia, and international partners, we are accelerating our implementation of our commitments under the Paris Agreement.


  
     670     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CAF_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
In light of the many challenges facing humankind related to security, the environment, climate change, human mobility, human rights, terrorism, denuclearization, the dismantling of weapons of mass destruction and the COVID-19 pandemic, the choice of this year’s theme — “The future we want, the UN we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism” — reaffirms that multilateralism has always been and remains the instrument to effectively combat certain scourges and the means to minimize certain antagonisms at the international level.


  
     671     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CAN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Right now, our world is facing a climate reckoning.
We are at this point because of our collective inability, over the past decades, to make the tough decisions and sacrifices needed to fight climate change and save future generations.
On climate, on inequality, on health.
Let us be inspired by our citizens’ call to restore the global economy while we tackle climate change.
Sea levels are rising and forests are burning.
At the same time, we are struggling against the consequences of our own actions, which are causing the level of carbon in the atmosphere to become unsustainable.


  
     672     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CHE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

In fact, seventy-five years on and there are still wars, there are more refugees and displaced people than ever before, there is a climate crisis currently without a solution, millions are going hungry and we haven’t achieved gender equality.
It is difficult to translate the goals we have set ourselves - on climate or gender equality for example - into national policy.
From my country’s perspective, the most urgent tasks are to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement, and to step up our efforts for peace.


  
     673     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CHL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Others already existed but have manifested themselves with greater force, such as climate change and global warming.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND GLOBAL WARMING
The coronavirus pandemic and global economic recession have shifted the spotlight away from climate change and global warming.
The threat of global warming is real and imminent.
The scientific evidence is categorical — the concentration of greenhouse gases and the current average temperature are the highest in the past 800,000 years.
In addition, we are suffering from severe landslides and melting ice at the poles, ocean pollution, sea-level increases, fires and forest destruction and many other worrisome phenomena.
Chile is fully committed to fighting climate change, which has inspired and mobilized millions of citizens.
We were one of the first 10 countries to significantly enhance our nationally determined contribution, thereby fulfilling the commitments we undertook in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We are moving forward with a framework law on climate change, already unanimously approved by the Senate, which sets the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 and lays out strategies, plans and instruments to meet that goal.
We have assumed the commitment to transforming Chile into a carbon-neutral country by 2050, with zero net emissions, which we will accomplish through several actions.
The first is the total closure of coal-fired plants before 2040.
We are replacing the fossil fuels in our transportation system with electricity or other clean fuels.
In order to successfully fulfil that mission we are building a true Climate Ambition Alliance, incorporating the State, the private sector, civil society and our citizens.
First, Chile contributes by caring for and protecting the Antarctic, which is the largest freshwater reserve in the world and plays a fundamental role in combating climate change and mitigating temperature increase and ice melt.
Chile was poor in fossil fuels and the pollutants of the past, but we are immensely rich in the clean and renewable energies of the future.
In addition, we are making progress in the energies of tomorrow, developing green hydrogen, which, as a fuel that does not generate greenhouse-gas emissions, will benefit the whole world.


  
     674     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CHN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

China will honor its commitment of providing US$2 billion of international assistance over two years, further international cooperation in such fields as agriculture, poverty reduction, education, women and children, and climate change, and support other countries in restoring economic and social development.
The Paris Agreement on climate change charts the course for the world to transition to green and low-carbon development.
We aim to have CO2 emissions peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.


  
     675     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CIV_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenges related to global warming, poverty, terrorism and the persistence of the nuclear threat and armed conflicts, among others, further legitimize this renewed multilateral ambition to which my country subscribes.
This underpinned our accession to the Paris Agreement on climate change and the decisions undertaken during our mandate on the United Nations Security Council, which ended in 2019.


  
     676     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CMR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

I could cite among many others, global warming, migration, terrorism, trafficking of all kinds and so on, which can be combated only through international cooperation.
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
The maintenance of peace and security also requires the United Nations to address the issue of climate change once and for all, as it has an impact on security.
It is clear that climate change poses a serious threat to human life.


  
     677     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_COD_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mister President,
Climate change poses a threat to humans and their fundamental rights, particularly for vulnerable populations.
The effects of global warming and the climatic disturbances that accompany it are more and more acutely felt around the world.
Faced with these threats posed by climate change and environmental degradation, our action in favour of the climate and the green economy as the basis of our future and our development is not simply a necessity but an urgent obligation if we wish to see a peaceful and sustainable future.
For its part, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has made binding commitments to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions and mitigating the effects of climate change.
We are determined to do everything to achieve the implementation of our commitments in favour of the climate by preserving our forests.
We therefore expect our partners to also respect their financial commitments within the framework of the preservation of tropical forests, in particular that of the green climate fund created in favour of the least developed countries.


  
     678     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_COL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Colombia has achieved an overall reduction of 30.9 million tons of carbon dioxide, while we have been waging an unprecedented battle against deforestation in our country’s history.
We have also made progress in the area of capacity-building to produce renewable energy in the fight against climate change.


  
     679     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CPV_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The devastating potential of climate change knows no borders, either.


  
     680     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CRI_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is true for combating COVID-19, addressing migration, fighting the illegal trafficking of people, weapons or drugs, fighting poverty, promoting development, human security and women’s rights, and overcoming the threat of the climate crisis.
If at least a fraction of all those resources were used to combat the pandemic, as well as the climate crisis, our generation could proudly say that we were able to redefine our priorities when the circumstances required it.
Today, we must prioritize less armament; more resources for development; more resources to combat the pandemic; more resources to counter climate change; more resources for the SDGS; less militarization and less death.
Mr. President,
If COVID-19 is an early warning for humankind, the climate crisis and inequality are the greatest threats to human security for our generation and the next.
Those complex tasks involve ensuring the implementation of the most relevant sustainable development instrument, namely the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030.
Together with France, we are also promoting the High Ambition Coalition to ensure that 30 per cent of the world’s land and sea territories are protected by 2030, as a nature-based solution to the climate crisis.
We must build inclusive, sustainable, carbon-free economies that respect human rights.
Our multilateralism must be entrepreneurial and resilient, promoting inclusive, sustainable and carbon-free economies.


  
     681     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CUB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Paradoxically, the country where the UN headquarters is located is also staying away from fundamental international treaties such as the Paris Agreement on Climate Change; it rejects the nuclear agreement with Iran reached by consensus; it promotes trade wars; it ends its commitment with international disarmament control instruments; it militarizes cyberspace; it expands coercion and unilateral sanctions against those who do not bend to its designs and sponsors the forcible overthrow of sovereign governments through non conventional war methods.


  
     682     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_CZE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Europe has shown it can be a global leader in many specific areas like in tackling climate change.


  
     683     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_DEU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We can continue to watch as our forests burn — and yet still deny the existence of human-induced climate change.
Or we can listen to the voice of scientists and treat climate change as what it is, namely the biggest threat to security, prosperity and development on our planet.


  
     684     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_DJI_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those trends included poverty, inequality, climate change, low levels of investment, slow progress in mobilizing the resources needed to effectively implement the Sustainable Development Goals, continuing conflicts and the rise of terrorism.
It goes without saying that, due to its vulnerability to external shocks, lasting disruptions in the global supply chain, declining flows of foreign direct investment, the disruptive effects of climate change and the continued flow of refugees fleeing instability and conflict, Djibouti hopes to be able to rely further on the solidarity of its partners and friends.
Mr. President,
Despite the close link established by scientists between climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic, including the possible explosion of zoonoses, efforts to implement the Paris Agreement have not made the expected progress.
Given the severity of the health crisis and the exclusive media attention given to COVID-19, climate change has been relegated to a secondary priority.
Our success in preventing future pandemics will depend on the attention and resources we devote to fighting climate change!


  
     685     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_DMA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is a greater challenge for small States like Dominica that must simultaneously battle the effects of climate change, the recent shocks and our inability to access concessionary financing to build the resilience needed to counter the natural and economic shocks that are way beyond our control.
Mr. President, Fellow Delegates,
The Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica will continue to use platforms, such as the General Assembly high-level debate, to highlight the inequality and inadequacy that continue to permeate our generation, and, to that end, we will call on the United Nations to assist small States like ours in unlocking funds that have been made available to small island developing States to fight climate change and be resilient.
The strategy has since been translated into a climate resilience recovery plan, which will guide us on our journey towards becoming a climate resilient nation.


  
     686     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_DNK_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are facing climate change that risks getting out of control.
To deliver on the Paris Agreement and on the Sustainable Development Goals.
Green investments not only help the climate.
Political leadership and high ambitions in the run up to COP26 is urgently needed to achieve neutrality by 2050.
In the years to come, Denmark plans on reducing emissions by 70 percent.


  
     687     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_DOM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Covid-19 has put the entire planet in check joining threats such as climate change, which affects us all, but it is highly serious in island countries like the Dominican Republic.
Appalling realities happening on our planet today, that we have a moral mandate to eradicate once and for all.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I bring to this meeting the mandate of the Dominican people to proclaim our nation’s commitment to protecting the environment and to continue supporting the Paris Agreements.
In the Security Council, we have advocated that security factors within the Climate Change context be more broadly and in-depth studied, because a natural phenomenon can cause or aggravate any conflict, mainly in highly fragile areas.
The occurrence of natural phenomena and extreme climatic events are becoming more frequent and their greater intensity particularly affects the small island developing states.


  
     688     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ECU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Fellow Presidents, the sustainable use of natural resources and climate change is an issue that we cannot ignore.


  
     689     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ESP_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Nor, lastly, does the virus take into consideration the environment or climate change.
But this terrible health emergency has made us realize the true meaning of the term climate emergency: a threat against which the only vaccine is humanity’s united response.
The challenge of the climate emergency; The challenge of technological progress and the fourth industrial revolution linked to digitalization.
The first of these challenges concerns the climate emergency.
And if we look at a picture of our world, we will be excited to see that the ozone hole is slowly healing, thanks to the Montreal Protocol, which bound governments to drastically reduce their CFC emissions.
And we can achieve the Sustainable Development Goals regarding climate, life below water, and terrestrial ecosystems if we set our minds to it.
And, above all, we know that we have very little time left to prevent the climate crisis from becoming irreversible.
This is why it makes no sense for any public official to disregard the Paris Agreement and its commitments for action.
Digitalization also offers huge potential for emission reduction and for curbing the climate emergency.
In education, in civil rights, in labour rights... We can see young women leading movements against climate change, we can see other young women dressed in white conquering the streets in the East, and young black women leading demonstrations in the West.
Secondly, we must step up our climate-ambition commitments.
The health emergency that we are enduring, the climate emergency, the successive crises and recessions, clearly reflect the depletion and failure of that model.


  
     690     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_EST_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

A lesson about what does climate change mean in reality — loss of diversified ecosystems, risks of the co-habitation of people and all other species in crowded towns.
A lesson about fair burden sharing in fighting the climate change, fair access to technology to promote more equal opportunities for people globally, fair and transparent means to control that technology is not used to harm our societies.
Digital technologies also serve the fight against climate change.
Smart grids, matching power supply and demand, developing digital solutions for that, is big part of CO2 neutral economy to come.


  
     691     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ETH_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

This coupled with the multiple crises affecting our region, including the massive outbreak of desert locusts and climate change induced extreme weather events, threatens to wipe out the livelihoods of millions of our people.
Mr. President,
Our objective should not only be to recover and rebuild a better future, but to do so in a green and climate resilient way.
There is no stark reminder of the need for urgent action than the devastating impact of climate change that we are witnessing in various parts of the world.
Our region is indeed a case in point with climate induced disaster upending the lives of millions of our people.
We all must mobilize more than ever to cut global gas emissions over the next decade to meet our targets under the Paris Climate Agreement.
Ethiopia is already responding to the call for climate action through the Green Legacy Initiative, which is part of our efforts to build a green and climate resilient economy.


  
     692     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_EU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

For example, by deciding to become the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050.
And it is in this spirit that we lead the implementation of the Paris Agreements.
China is a crucial partner in addressing common challenges, such as global warming, COVID-19 or debt relief in Africa.


  
     693     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_FIN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our lives may have been on lockdown this year, but climate change has not stopped for a moment.
The urgency of bold and swift climate action is growing by the day.
Our commitments to the Paris Agreement must prevail.
All recovery measures must be assessed from the perspective of their climate and environment impacts.
The Paris Agreement, the 2030 Agenda and the Convention on Biological Diversity need to guide our way forward.
The Finnish Government stands firmly behind its aim to make Finland climate neutral by 2035, and thus the world's first fossil-free welfare society.
The Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action, led by Finland and Chile, has grown to include more than 50 countries.
This cooperation helps countries to integrate climate considerations into economic, fiscal and financial policies.


  
     694     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_FJI_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

But even as we mark Fiji’s 50th Birthday alongside the United Nation’s 75th Anniversary, any celebration feels hollow against the enormity of COVID-19’s global spread and the worsening impacts of the climate emergency.
We must continue charting our path towards net-zero emissions and the aims of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda.
Climate change and the coronavirus may be very different beasts, but the inequities they have exposed are all-too-familiar for small developing states.
If climate change was not making that clear, this pandemic has made it painfully evident.
While we trust that science will defeat COVID-19, just as it has defeated smallpox, polio, and other communicable diseases, our changing climate will define the “next normal” post-COVID-19, becoming far deadlier before it ever abates.
If global climate action mirrors our incoherent global response to this pandemic, our children will see far greater horrors — we will not cap global temperature rise at either the 1.5-degree or 2-degree target, we will not stop our ocean ecosystems from becoming inhospitable, and we will not prevent a sixth mass extinction event.
Billions or even trillions of dollars thrown at scientist’s feet decades on from now will not produce a silver bullet that saves us from unmitigated climate impacts.
That strategy may suffice for COVID-19, but solving a challenge as complex as climate change demands daily and enduring commitment that is already overdue.
Our recovery from this pandemic must mark a transition to a decarbonized, climate- resilient economic system.
And we soon plan to monetize the carbon captured by Fiji’s forests in partnership with the World Bank.
-	We have relocated five entire communities vulnerable to the rising seas, with over 40 more identified for relocation;
-	We are expanding our marine protected areas and protecting new coral reef systems, while maintaining our moratorium on sea-bed mining for the decade;
-	We are committed to net-zero emissions in shipping throughout the Pacific by 2050;
-	We are building adaptive capacity by expanding access to information and technology to all our people, including in our most remote islands.
And where climate impacts have left trails of devastation, we are building back stronger.
There is so much more we can do — that we must do — to break the costly cycle of rebuilding from climate driven devastation and maintain the pace of our march towards a modern economy.
Mr President, 2020 was meant to be the year we took back our planet; a superyear for nature, for the oceans, for the climate, for biodiversity, for food security, for the survival of all life on Earth.
We know that neither this global pandemic nor the climate emergency can be solved in the communities suffering the most from their devastation.
While they may stand emptier-than-usual today, the halls of the UNGA are where our global responses to COVID-19, climate change, and other defining causes of our time must take form — they are where our collective future will be forged.
Fiji stands ready to serve our community of nations in every way we can, by way of peacekeeping, by way of our climate and oceans diplomacy, and by example, through the nation we build for ourselves.


  
     695     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_FRA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Now more than ever, the climate and biodiversity must be central to our collective agenda — not in words, but deeds.
This December marks five years since the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
That is also why, to mark the five-year anniversary of the Paris Agreement, I want France to mobilize the international community anew so that each and every one of us can take stock of our commitments without changing them and without muddying the waters, but instead by transparently renewing the commitment of all of our countries and regions with revitalized determination.
In the coming weeks, I am determined to see Europe reach a more ambitious agreement to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
The President of the European Commission has set the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 per cent by 2030.
That means we need to move more quickly and decisively towards an ambitious emission trading scheme, a carbon price floor and a carbon border tax.
On this basis and alongside our British and European partners, we will seek out the commitments of the major emitters ahead of the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and we will stand by our partners, particularly in Africa, to achieve our common goals.
In November, we will host a summit of development banks in Paris to ensure that all financial flows contribute to an environmental and inclusive recovery, in line with the Paris Agreement.
On biodiversity, which we now know is clearly linked to climate change and human health, as has been demonstrated, we will be organizing a One Planet Summit in Marseilles with the United Nations and the World Bank.
It is our duty to protect them and we will do so ahead of the key events for the United Nations, including the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on climate, biodiversity and the fight against desertification.
We must reflect upon the terms of a globalization that accepts revisiting and rethinking the meaning of just sovereignty and fair trade, integrating the fight against inequalities in all their forms at the heart of its model, be they in terms of gender, social or economic condition, as well as the fight against global warming and in favour of biodiversity — one that allows for the sustainable integration of conditions for a new equilibrium in the world.


  
     696     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_FSM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Through empathy, our global community can overcome any challenge, from COVID-19 to Climate Change.
Whether it is the global fight against COVID-19 or Climate Change, or our international efforts to tackle human trafficking and illegal fishing, the Federated States of Micronesia asks our American and Chinese friends to reinforce their cooperation and friendship with each other, in order to achieve what is best for our global community.
It is my hope, as the President of the Federated States of Micronesia, that the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China JOINTLY champion global causes for global solidarity and cooperation, from Climate Change to COVID-19.
Mr. President,
The Federated States of Micronesia is keenly aware that, like all nations of the World, it is simultaneously facing the public health threat of COVID-19, and the longer-term existential threat of Climate Change.
Mr. President,
For our Nation, Climate Change is our single greatest long-term security threat.
Higher temperatures threaten crops, livestock, and fish.
All countries and peoples are in a global war against Climate Change.
If our World is to fulfill its commitments under the Paris Agreement, all nations must make a unified and global effort.
We have seen, through the Montreal Protocol, that 98 per cent of Ozone Depleting Substances have been phased out by the global community.
Mr. President,
To repeat myself: the solutions to both Climate Change and COVID-19 is global solidarity and cooperation.
Just as we call upon the Security Council to take Climate Change seriously, we believe that the Security Council must view COVID-19 as a global security threat as well.
We believe that the UN Secretary-General ought to appoint a Special Representative for Climate and Security under the Security Council, and that UN efforts should become more inclusive.
Our exposure to the Pacific Ocean carries risks beyond climate change.
Micronesia welcomes the work being done by the International Law Commission on the topic of “Sealevel rise in relation to international law”, including the first issues paper released by two of the CoChairs of the Commission’s Study Group, in which they focus on the Law of the Sea elements of the topic.
These include the legal implications of sea-level rise for maritime baselines, maritime zones, maritime delimitation, and the status of islands.
The Pacific Islands Forum has been instrumental in pushing the international community to address sealevel rise, building on the longstanding work in the Pacific region to delineate all of our maritime zones in accordance with the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
Micronesia strongly believes that rising sea levels should not undermine our country’s maritime baselines and maritime zones.
We included with our deposit written observations that Micronesia is not obligated under international law to keep our maritime zones under review and would maintain those zones regardless of climate change-induced sea-level rise.
This recognizes that Micronesia’s legal entitlements to the richness of the resources and biodiversity of our maritime spaces must not be reduced under international law because of a phenomenon — i.e., climate change-induced sea-level rise — for which Micronesia has minimal responsibility.


  
     697     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GAB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, Nations operating individually cannot protect themselves from climate change, tensions associated with trade competition, growing inequalities and the increase in terrorist attacks and acts of transnational crime.
For us, this involves transitioning from a traditional polluting industry to a low-carbon, environmentally friendly industry.
For Gabon, this is based on a foundation made up of three pillars: improved living conditions, the implementation of projects to adapt to climate change and the preservation of biodiversity.


  
     698     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GBR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

And we will do so in 2021, as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the founding of this great United Nations in London in January, and through our G7 Presidency, and as we host the world’s climate change summit, COP26, in Glasgow next November.


  
     699     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GEO_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

There are many others, such as armed conflicts, poverty, climate change, natural and technogenic disasters, terrorism and international crime, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and many others.


  
     700     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GIN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Through its multiple fields of action and its ability to coordinate international intervention, the UN supports member States in achieving their development goals, eradicating poverty and fighting to mitigate the effects of climatic change.
Guinea welcomes the launching of the decade of action to deliver the SDGs which demands that we scale up our ambitions and accelerate the implementation of appropriate and lasting solutions to the challenges of poverty, gender inequality, conflicts, climate change and the financial gap in implementing the SDGs.


  
     701     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GMB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

As the UN Decade of Action for the implementation of Agenda 2030 has been undermined by the outbreak of the pandemic, it is essential and most urgent to accelerate the implementation of our global commitments on Financing for Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     702     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GNB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is an extremely vulnerable country as it is a post-conflict African country, a least developed country (LDC) and a small island developing State (SIDS), facing considerable threats from climate change.
Climate change is irrefutable.
It has also implemented medium- and long-term climate change adaptation plans.
It has made available more than 26 per cent of its territory to the National System of Land and Marine Protected Areas, among several other initiatives, such as its contributions to the mitigation of greenhouse gases and NDCs.


  
     703     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GNQ_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The phenomenon of climate change deserves the same attention of the international community.


  
     704     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GRC_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Challenges like climate change, biodiversity, sustainable development, and migration.
A world where fossil fuels are just that, a thing of the past.


  
     705     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GRD_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The growing challenges we now face as a global community,such as poverty, poor education and climate change, have been compounded by this dreaded pandemic, and, in turn, risk stymieing the progress made in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
This risk is more acute than most to Small Island Developing States, such as Grenada, given our unique vulnerabilities, including climate change impacts and high indebtedness.


  
     706     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GTM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Within that framework, we will expand mechanisms to address the devastating effects of climate change, which not only affects developing countries disproportionately but constitutes a crisis that must be urgently addressed.
Climate change is a reality that we cannot ignore.


  
     707     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_GUY_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Most importantly, the Climate Change Summit in Paris culminated in the historic Paris Agreement.
The Paris Agreement on climate change represents the single greatest commitment made by countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The ongoing public health and climate crises have demonstrated that it is in the common interest of humanity that we fully embrace the ideals of multilateralism.
Mr. President,
Competing and compounded by the pandemic is climate change.
Every year is another record breaking year for extreme weather conditions and climate events.
As a low-lying coastal State, Guyana, is acutely aware of the high toll of these extreme weather conditions.
But equally costly is climate resilience.
The only way to ease this burden is through concerted and balanced climate action, especially via mitigation, climate financing, technical cooperation and capacity building.
We also urge all States to set ambitious targets in their Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement and to work earnestly towards them.
Guyana’s Low Carbon Development Strategy (LCDS) reflects our national development agenda.
The strategy will ensure that we fulfill our Nationally Determined Contributions and place our country along a path of sustainable and climate-resilient development.


  
     708     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_HND_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Ladies and Gentlemen:
The events of the past, present and future have been, are and will be highly contingent upon climate change.
It is now necessary that we move from theory to facts and from fine, eloquent words to hard-hitting statements of reality: climate change has been an emergency for several years and yet the famous Green Climate Fund funding is nowhere to be found.
I wish to recall that Honduras is one of the three most vulnerable countries to the effects of climate change in the world.
Mr. Secretary-General,
Climate change, natural disasters and epidemics affect our economy, and those problems are not always the fault of small countries, but, by affecting the economy, they prevent us from complying with the parameters imposed on us by financial bodies.


  
     709     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_HRV_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our common work on the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Climate Agreement and internationally agreed biodiversity goals will be crucial to face the inevitable systemic shocks in the future.
The EU has already committed to transform its economy and society to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050.
We see sustainable, climate-neutral growth as an essential element of the future not just of Europe, but of the entire world.
Uncertainties are many, from unpredictability of markets, to the perils of global climate change, which will be the challenge of this century.
In view of the fact that the oceans play a central role in regulating the Earth’s climate, we cannot ignore that the past five years hold the highest record for global ocean temperatures.
As a consequence, while the sea level has not changed over the last two millennia, it has already risen about twenty centimetres since 1900 and it is accelerating at an alarming rate, threatening many of our coastal areas and cities.
Yet this is only one of the many side effects of global warming that ring the alarm bells for our planet and it if we do not act now the damage will become irreparable.


  
     710     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_HTI_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The multidimensional consequences of the virus, coupled with new conflicts and asymmetric wars, terrorism and violent extremism, global socioeconomic inequalities and climate change, demand our response.


  
     711     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_HUN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

More and more people say that today’s situation is the prototype for the anthropocene era.
Because by the beginning of the 21st century we humans have become the factor that exercises the biggest impact on changes to the planet.


  
     712     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_IRL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We face enduring global challenges: hunger and food insecurity; the existential threat of climate change; violations of international humanitarian and human rights law, and impunity for perpetrators.
Crucially, we must address the factors underlying conflict, including insecurity, hunger, poor governance, climate change, violations of human rights, and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons.
We have heard the argument that issues like climate, hunger and human rights do not belong in the Security Council.
We know that climate change not only impedes sustainable development but also contributes to conflict.
We know that rising oceans pose an existential threat to some Small Island Developing States.


  
     713     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_IRQ_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is no alternative to the Organization, which brings us together despite all our differences, especially at a time when we face transnational challenges, such as pandemics, climate change, food security-related problems and the issue of migration.


  
     714     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ISL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate action needs to be at the heart of our efforts as we build back better and greener after the pandemic.
The Paris Agreement is the global baseline, and Iceland is fully committed to its implementation.
Iceland’s new climate action plan, released earlier this summer, goes even further than was agreed in Paris.
Our goal is to achieve 35 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and full carbon neutrality by 2040.
Sustainable management of natural resources and the use of renewable energy will be instrumental if we are to combat climate change.
That includes the sustainable use of our oceans, a major carbon sink, continuously threatened by climate change, pollution, and mismanagement.


  
     715     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ITA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

These efforts fall within the two pillars of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement.
The pandemic has opened new horizons for strategies to fight climate change and for environmental protection.
We will need to work together so that our renewed ambitions regarding climate change are not disconnected from the promotion of investments and policies for socioeconomic recovery.
Safeguarding biodiversity, protecting the oceans, and reversing soil erosion represent essential variables in combating climate change.
The momentous appointments of the “High-level Event on Climate Action” and the “Summit on Biodiversity”, will see us hard at work, at the sidelines of this Ministerial Week, to ensure a sustainable recovery.
Our partnership with the United Kingdom in organizing the 26th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change will reaffirm Italy’s role in this sphere.
We will be particularly focused on increasing youth involvement in the debate on fighting climate change: the building of their world, the world of tomorrow, begins today.
For this reason, we will be organizing — in the framework of the CoP26 — next year’s “Youth4 Climate” in Italy.
It is not simply about inclusivity and intergenerational justice — principles, which are, among others, enshrined in the Paris Agreement.
In this spirit, Italy supports its Partner Countries, and in particular, those that need it the most, in building together a future resilient to climate change and efficient in its use of resources.


  
     716     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_JAM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also commend your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, for maintaining the focus on social justice and climate action as critical elements of the Decade of Recovery.
However, our economy now faces the triple challenges of reduced revenues, increased health and social expenditures, and an ongoing climate crisis, which threatens to undo years of hard-won development gains.


  
     717     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KAZ_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Another existential crisis for our civilization is the climate change.
The climate emergency is a race we are losing.
We must unite around the UN’s six climate positive actions.
Kazakhstan is very vulnerable to the various effects of the climate change.
Although Kazakhstan is highly dependent on fossil fuels and has a long way to go to meet Paris 2030 targets, our commitment to develop a decarbonized economy has no alternative.
We will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 15 per cent by 2030 through economic overhaul and industrial modernization.


  
     718     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KEN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The COVID19 pandemic and other contemporary challenges including the climate and biodiversity crisis that we face, our growing geostrategic tensions, social as well as economic inequalities, the crisis of legitimacy and governance as well as the vulnerabilities of our digital world, have, indeed, redefined the imperative for multilateral action.
Mr. President,
Turning to Climate Change, I believe Kenya’s stance on Climate Change and the Environment is known to all.
Climate Change can unpackage our efforts to attain the SDGs.
Kenya acknowledges the disproportionate impacts of climate variability in Small Island Developing States as well as states with fragile ecological environments.
In this regard, Kenya was honoured to co host the United Nations Secretary General’s Climate Action Summit in September of last year, which resulted in landmark commitments as well as initiatives.


  
     719     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KGZ_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

In November last year, we ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The Kyrgyz Republic needs the support of the international community to adapt to the negative impacts of climate change.
Mr. President,
Climate change reduces the volume of glaciers and water resources of Kyrgyzstan.


  
     720     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KHM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Certainly, the world is facing great turmoil unprecedented in the last 30 years, as a result of the tectonic convergence of a potential New Cold War, which could lead to a profound transformation of the entire geopolitical landscape, the continuous outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, climate and environmental change, non-state terrorism, not to mention the millions of human beings still suffering from hunger, misery and exploitation etc.
Climate change is another matter of great concern.
Global CO2 emissions have increased by 1.5% per year over the past ten years.
As scary as these statistics show, it is mind-boggling to note that not many countries have done enough to meet their respective COP21 commitments.
Cambodia is a small country with limited resources, but we strive to address the challenges related to climate change, under both national and international frameworks.
For instance, we have taken efforts to meet the obligations born of the COP21: climate change action is a key component of our national development policy.
In fact, we will update our Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) for the implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) ahead of the COP26 meeting in Glasgow.


  
     721     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KIR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is critical, especially with the emergence of unprecedented challenges such as climate change, natural disasters and the recent COVID-19 pandemic.
A future that is resilient to the impacts of Climate Change
Mr. President,
Of great importance to Kiribati and our Blue Pacific is without question, the alarming dilemma of our present time, climate change.
To this end, my Government continues to implement critical projects to build resilience, including the Peacebuilding Fund’ climate security project, which I launched in Kiribati earlier this month.
In solidarity with our Pacific Islands Forum family, we also remain committed to securing our maritime boundaries, amid the impacts of climate change.
While COVID-19 is our immediate crisis, we must continue to work on the other challenges that confront us all, in particular climate change, which presents the single greatest threat to the livelihood, security and wellbeing of the Pacific and its peoples, as declared by Forum Leaders in the Kainaki II Declaration in 2019 and the Boe Declaration in 2018.


  
     722     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KNA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

That purpose must be fidelity to multilateralism and faith in international cooperation if we are to breathe new life into the United Nations charter while also achieving the sustainable development goals, halting climate change and pivoting to the stronger and safer future we all want to see — guided by the significant lessons of the distant and recent past.
Climate Change, NCDs and COVID-19 are inter-linked symptoms that something is awry with planet earth.
Climate Change
Mr. President,
St Kitts and Nevis is the smallest independent nation in the western hemisphere and the impact of climate change weighs heavily on our daily lives.
At this point in time, we are in the most active part of the hurricane season at the mercy of mother nature and for this reason climate change will always be high on our agenda.
Climate change for us is not something to be postponed for tomorrow.


  
     723     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KOR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the post-COVID-19 era, the UN should be tasked with spreading these universal values even further to resolve complex global challenges such as cooperation in healthcare, economic cooperation for sustainable development and climate action.
Korea is playing an active role in establishing a new climate regime, for instance, by faithfully implementing the Paris Agreement.
By renewing nationally determined contributions, we will submit to the UN our fresh national greenhouse gas reduction targets by 2030 by the end of this year.
By devising a long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategy, we will work with the international community in realizing a low-carbon society by 2050.
In order to respond to climate change with success, promoting inclusiveness in international cooperation is indispensable.
As a bridging state connecting developed and developing countries, Korea will actively participate in climate action and faithfully share its unique development experience with developing countries.
Next year, Korea will hold the 2nd P4G Summit in Seoul, which will serve as an occasion to affirm the importance of global solidarity in responding to climate change.


  
     724     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_KWT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development goals, which is in its fifth year, illustrates the most lofty human plan striving for a better future, which came as an extended complementary effort for the success achieved under the Millennium Development Goals, in a way that humankind was the main focus of formulating its foundations and drawing its desired results, presenting itself as an opportunity to remind that the fulfillment of international obligations and solidarity at the global level will represent the real starting point for accomplishing those goals aimed at eradicating poverty in its various forms and ensuring all human beings obtain their equal rights in dignity, education, health, political participation, youth and women empowerment, and addressing the impact of climate change within the framework of the Paris Agreement, describing the continuation of environmental degradation as one of the biggest obstacles to realizing those goals, according to the principle of shared responsibility, taking into account the difference in responsibilities and burden bearing.


  
     725     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LAO_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

More importantly, multilateral cooperation under the flag of the United Nations has synergized collective efforts in responding to and addressing major common challenges that no single country can do alone, such as an issue of climate change, pandemic, terrorism and others.
Mr. President,
Today, climate change has induced more frequent and severe natural disasters that brought huge impact on development, particularly food security and infrastructure development.
Therefore, building society with climate resilience and adaptation is very important.
On the same note, it also calls for concerted efforts from all countries around the world to consume natural resources in a sustainable manner, employ more alternative energy and follow the commitment under the Paris Agreement on reducing the greenhouse gas emission that contributed to the rising of world temperature.


  
     726     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LCA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our unique circumstances and consequent vulnerabilities have left us exposed to the ravages of the twin crises of the pandemic and climate change.
¥	SIDS are the smallest emitters of carbon, yet we are the most affected by climate change.
For years we have argued our case: the financial crisis, climate change, and the latest pandemic have provided the empirical evidence that reaffirmed the vulnerabilities of SIDS and inadequacy of the solutions in the current global architecture.
Unfortunately, the same obtains with the issue of Climate Change.
For the SIDS, the Paris Agreement, though well intended, has just not delivered.
Even as China and Taiwan have their own differences and while this is being addressed, Climate Change and the COVID-19 pandemic are stark reminders that Taiwan should not be left out of the discussions.
Science projects that if left unchecked, the impacts of climate change will see SIDS begin to disappear within a generation.


  
     727     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LIE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Had we done better in achieving the goals reflected in the 2030 Agenda — from gender equality to health care, from inequality to climate change — we would have been much better prepared to fight the pandemic effectively and in a spirit of genuine solidarity.
Mr. President
The pandemic is the defining challenge our time — in addressing its various dimensions, climate change and its manifold devastating effects have to be at the very center of our response.
Enormous work has been done to design solutions that help us fight climate change.
The Paris agreement was reached after painstaking and arduous negotiations.
Today it seems that the Paris agreement is not sufficient to save the planet from ourselves.
Too many States, in particular some with vast impact on our collective CO2 outputs, have not taken commitments sufficient to change course.
We are far off the trajectory charted in Paris and in fact on track to reach unsustainable levels of global warming even earlier than projected.


  
     728     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LSO_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is also shocking to learn that the number of people suffering from hunger and malnutrition increased especially in countries in special situations like Lesotho during the reporting period, while at the same time climate change is reported to be occurring much faster than anticipated.
Mr. President
Climate change continues to be a key challenge to our efforts towards achieving sustainable development.
Member States of the UN possess different levels of capacities and resources to address the causes and effects of climate change.


  
     729     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LTU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
As a responsible member of the international community, Lithuania remains loyal to the commitments of the United Nations Goals for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In the face of accelerating climate change and biodiversity loss, driven in large part by unsustainable production and consumption, urgent action is needed.
Be it a resolution of conflicts, ensuring peace and security, fight against poverty or climate change, securing education, social inclusion for all, or fighting global pandemics — in all cases we need reliable tools.


  
     730     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LUX_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Luxembourg’s official development assistance will remain at 1 per cent of its gross national income, in addition to its international climate and migration expenditure.
We are now working to extend the climate finance model to other Sustainable Development Goals.


  
     731     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_LVA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement must remain at the centre of our recovery efforts.
We urgently need to strengthen our efforts to address climate change, to tackle the loss of biodiversity and to protect the environment.
It is a general threat to world peace, it is a general threat to efforts to solve global issues such as climate change and environmental pollution.


  
     732     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MAR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

While the pandemic has cast its shadow over vital issues on the Organization’s agenda, this should not be a reason to overlook the other challenges we face, notably climate change, counter-terrorism, migration and peacekeeping.


  
     733     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MCO_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Despite these major obstacles, we have adopted innovative guidelines: the 2030 Agenda for development and its SDGs in 2015, as well as the Paris Agreement on climate change in 2016 and the global Compact for safe migration in 2018, to name just a few.
Over the past year, many of us have praised the commitment that young people have shown on the climate issue.
Mr. President,
We cannot discuss this new context of insecurity without mentioning the gravity of the climate crisis.
The slowdown in our activities as a result of the pandemic has not changed the curve of rising temperatures nor reduced nature’s destruction.
Now more than ever, the COVID-19 pandemic is demonstrating that it is crucial to achieve the goals defined by the 2030 Agenda for development, the Paris Agreement on climate change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.


  
     734     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MDA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

I use this opportunity to express the deep concern of the Republic of Moldova in relation to the climate change and natural cataclysms.


  
     735     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MDV_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

For countries like mine — climate change remains a significant threat — but also a threat that is difficult to overcome on our own.
There is also an increasing trend on the slow-onset events such as sea level rise.
For the Maldives, the impacts of climate change are no longer the future.
But climate change does not discriminate.
Climate change is a risk multiplier.
Our hope is in realising the lofty ambitions of the Paris Agreement.
Climate financing has to be new, additional and predictable in nature, and rolled out now, to achieve the target we set in 2015.
This is another opportunity to reduce emissions to keep global temperature rise below 1.5° Celsius.


  
     736     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MHL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Without increased leadership, the consequences for shared responsibility will be catastrophic - be the issue the financial crisis, public health, security tensions, or climate change.
The Marshall Islands underscores the complex security environment in our Pacific region, and the need for a stronger focus on emerging and cross-cutting security drivers within fragile states, including climate change.
Mr. President,
Climate change is the single greatest threat to the peoples of the Pacific, including in low-lying atoll nations like the Marshall Islands.
Curbing emissions now is at the core of the Paris Agreement.
Change relies on my fellow UN members, major emitters especially, delivering ambitious Nationally Determined Contributions this year.
It relies on us all seizing the opportunity posed by the unprecedented scale of economic recovery to create a zero-carbon future.
Change relies on protecting the most vulnerable, because those on the frontline — whether healthcare workers battling the pandemic or small island nations sounding the alarm on climate change — are critical to the survival of us all.
Adaptation to climate change will hold off the worst impacts if the world lives up to its promise of 1.5C.
There are two things we need to secure our future: for the world to help us adapt to the changes that will come with a 1.5-degree temperature rise, and to make sure that that is the limit.
Taiwan should be allowed to participate in an equal and dignified manner within the UN system, including the WHO, ICAO and the UNFCCC, as well as activities related to the SDGs.


  
     737     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MKD_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We see that a new generation of inequalities related to education, technology and climate change is already approaching, which will surely result in new, huge divisions within the societies.
Our economic and technical-technological development must become climate neutral.
Unfortunately, in order to repair the economic damage caused by the pandemic, many governments and companies are already making compromises at the expense of the environmental and climate agenda.
By doing so, they only protect the unsustainable economic model of development based on fossil fuels and the use of underpaid labor.


  
     738     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MLT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Whilst the immediate priority of countries around the globe is the restarting of the economy and the protection of people’s health, we cannot side-line environmental issues and the need to move closer to carbon neutrality.
It is for this reason that I look towards a future where we have a carbon neutral planet by 2050.
This is why, when we announced my country’s long-term economic vision for 2050 a couple of days ago, we made it a point to include carbon neutrality as one of its pillars of our economic policy.


  
     739     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MNE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The current pandemic has also confirmed that full implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement are key to preparing the world for future systemic shocks.


  
     740     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MNG_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The pandemic, climate change and other threats that have raised alarm worldwide keep reminding humankind of the overriding need to cherish the Earth and live in harmony with nature.


  
     741     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MOZ_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Other global phenomena and challenges calling for the United Nations’ led multilateral intervention, include terrorism, climate change, cybersecurity, public health, research and development, trade and industrialization.
With regard to climate change, due to its geographical location, Mozambique has been cyclically affected by extreme events.
More than a year later, we continue efforts to rebuild and recover socioeconomic damage, combined with adaptation and resilience measures, in the light of internationally accepted practices under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to which we have been a party since June 2018.


  
     742     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MRT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let us also take this opportunity to consider ways to improve its performance as we seek to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 and overcome major global challenges in the areas of the environment, climate, health, education, security, stability and development.


  
     743     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MUS_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

This pandemic which comes on top of the ongoing global crises of inequality and climate change, has exposed and exacerbated the vulnerabilities and inequalities faced by countries of the South in general and in small island states such as Mauritius in particular.
As much as our efforts at national level are crucial, there is an imperative need for us at global level to take all necessary actions to ensure that the world economy does not sink into depression, that we get back on track on the SDGs, that we recommit to our obligations under the Paris Agreement and more importantly, avoid any action likely to create more tension that could lead to further economic despair.


  
     744     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MWI_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

In order to break the cycle of food and nutrition insecurity and chronic vulnerability to climate change and disasters, my Administration is implementing the National Resilience Strategy for the period 2018-2030.
The COVID-19 pandemic and climate change, among others, are such colossal challenges that require global unity and solutions.


  
     745     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_MYS_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Amidst all this, the state of the planet continued to suffer neglect while nations continued to bicker over who should take more responsibility to reverse the effects of climate change.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS/CLIMATE CRISIS
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Malaysia has and will continue to support the accelerated action and transformative pathways of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The fear is that this could only be a temporary reprieve as global carbon emissions may rise again if we continue to be complacent and do a ‘business as usual’ approach in our post economic recovery plan.


  
     746     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NAM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

An effective, rules-based multilateral system is our insurance policy against existential threats such as wars, nuclear proliferation, pandemics and climate change.
The COVID-19 pandemic has diverted resources from Climate Change and related mitigation efforts.
We therefore should ensure that we rededicate ourselves to commitments of the Paris Agreement.
As a member of the High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy, Namibia reaffirms its commitment towards tackling the great challenges that the world’s oceans face, ranging from global warming, ocean acidification, marine pollution, including plastic pollution, and unsustainable exploitation of its living marine resources.


  
     747     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NER_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Niger appreciates his personal commitment to a global ceasefire as a result of COVID-19 and his initiatives for climate and stability in the Sahel and West Africa.
This is about coming together in the face of a global state of emergency that is as much related to health, the economy, society and climate as it is security.
This is why in Africa we are working within the framework of the Climate Commission for the Sahel region, which I have the honour of chairing, for the implementation of the Paris Agreement on the continent.
It is in this spirit that we have drawn up a Global Climate Investment Plan for the Sahel region covering the period 2018-2030 which now constitutes a tool to operationalize the implementation of the Paris Agreement in the region.


  
     748     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NGA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

CLIMATE CHANGE
Excellencies,
Climate Change is an environmental crisis which requires urgent action.
Our Administration is conscious of the fact that the attainment of national development targets would be greatly impeded unless the consequences of climate change are addressed holistically in line with the Paris Agreement.
To this end, Nigeria has intensified climate action through the upward review of reduction in greenhouse gas emission under the Nationally Determined Contributions, which are climate change targets under the Paris Agreement.


  
     749     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NIC_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The pandemic has plunged the world into uncertainty and could further exacerbate major crises such as hunger, malnutrition, poverty, inequity, unemployment and climate change, which exist as a result of an economic system that is unjust and degrading to human beings.
Although the challenges posed by the pandemic are complex, we cannot forget the existential threat of climate change that continues to be overlooked as a consequence of unbridled capitalism.


  
     750     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NLD_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

But also by sharing our expertise in areas like climate adaptation.
In January 2021, we will be hosting the Climate Adaptation Summit to help the world prepare better for the effects of climate change.


  
     751     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NOR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Acts to stem climate change.
Fourth, Norway will bring climate-related security threats into the discussion.
We must acknowledge that people living in conflict zones are among the most vulnerable to climate change, and that climate change in turn increases the risk of conflict.
Many Member States are facing climate related disasters — more frequent and more dangerous than ever before.
The people in the Sahel are among the most vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.
Yet they are among the world’s lowest emitters of CO2.
It is our common obligation to invest in resilience, especially in the parts of the world most adversely affected by climate change.
2020 remains the crucial year for countries to update and strengthen their national climate targets under the Paris Agreement.
In February, Norway submitted an enhanced climate target for 2030.
We must also give priority to further development of rules and cooperation under the Paris Agreement.
Norway is actively speeding up the green shift in our economy, making it cheaper to be green, and more expensive to pollute.
Actions include increasing sustainable seafood production, decarbonising international shipping, scaling up offshore wind power and conserving and restoring mangroves.


  
     752     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NPL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Challenges such as arms race, climate change, and disasters impede the prospects of peace and sustainable development.
Mr. President,
Climate crisis continues to pose an existential threat.
Our mountains contribute to the climate and ecosystem of oceans through hundreds of snow-fed rivers streaming down to the oceans.
Nepal’s Himalayas function as natural climate stabilizer.
They contribute to maintain natural cooling system as they lie in the hottest zone of the planet between the tropic of Cancer and Capricorn.
There is an organic link between mountains and oceans in maintaining the natural climate cycle.
Our economic activities and mode of power generation are the most climate friendly.
It is an unpleasant irony that we substantially contribute to sustaining ecosystem and emit negligibly, yet we bear the severest brunt of climate change.
Global warming has eroded the health of our high mountains and ecosystems.
Global pollution and climate change have contributed to the fast melting of ice which must be a matter of serious concern for all of us.
We call for full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement, robust climate action and easy access to climate financing.


  
     753     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NRU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our commitment to multilateralism has delivered historic agreements on sustainable development, climate change, disaster risk reduction, and development finance, just to name a few.
Mr. President,
Many have compared the humanitarian impacts and economic disruption of COVID to what we might expect from climate change.
Today, I would like to specifically thank the Government of Germany for continuing to place the issue of climate change and security before the United Nations Security Council.
It is now uncontroversial that climate change will make it more difficult to fulfil this most basic responsibility of government by undermining food and water systems, increasing competition over declining natural resources, disrupting global supply chains, and displacing communities.
Therefore, addressing the security implications of climate change requires a multilateral response.
We believe these functions are best taken up by a new Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Climate and Security.
However, we will only succeed in protecting the security of vulnerable countries and communities if our political system shows the courage to make the fundamental changes that the climate crisis requires.
We want a United Nations that addresses the climate crisis by taking urgent action, safeguard us from an economic regression and depression that will further exacerbate the existing inequalities among nations.
Climate Change exposes environmental risks for coastal dwelling.


  
     754     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_NZL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our opportunity today is to build back better — to rethink how our economies can work for the many, not just the few, to better focus on the most vulnerable and to rebuild our societies to prioritize tackling the defining challenge of our generation — climate change.
Many of the things I have said about COVID-19 apply equally to climate change, but there will be no vaccine against the latter.
The threat of climate change is more real in the Pacific than in any other region in the world.
Some of the most climate-affected nations in the world sit within our region.
Sea-level rise poses an extreme threat to many Pacific islands.
The full implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is critical.
We must stop fossil-fuel subsidies and divert those billions of dollars into transitioning to clean-energy generation.


  
     755     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PAK_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

According to respected Professor Noam Chomsky, mankind is at even a greater risk than it was before the First and Second World Wars in the last century because of the increased threat of nuclear war, Climate Change, and sadly the rise of authoritarian regimes.
Mr. President,
This year, I must again reiterate the threat posed to mankind due to
Climate Change.
Unprecedented fires in Australia, Siberia, California, Brazil; unprecedented flooding in various parts of the world; and record temperatures even in the Arctic Circle.
Commitments made through the Paris Agreement must be fulfilled, in particular the commitment to mobilize $100 billion annually as climate finance.
Pakistan’s contribution to carbon emissions is minimal, but it is one of those countries most affected by climate change.
Yet, we have decided to take the lead as we consider addressing climate change a universal responsibility.
We have launched an extremely ambitious programme to plant 10 billion trees in next three years as our contribution to mitigating the effects of climate change.


  
     756     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PER_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Peru is particularly vulnerable to climate change.
That is why my Government adopted the Framework Law on Climate Change in 2018 and is committed to the national implementation of the Paris Agreement, establishing road maps for 91 adaptation measures and 62 mitigation measures.
The conservation and sustainable use of the Amazon is another priority for my country, including strengthening its resilience and adaptive capacity in addressing climate change and safeguarding the country’s vast biological diversity.


  
     757     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PHL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, the same urgency needed to fight COVID-19 is needed to address the climate crisis.
Climate change has worsened the ravages of the pandemic.
The Philippines joined the Paris Agreement to fight climate change.
We call on all parties, especially those who have not made good their commitment to fight climate change, to honor the same.


  
     758     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PLW_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Marine pollution, overfishing and acidifying and warming seas are taking their toll on the health of our ocean.
All of humanity depends on the ocean for food, for climate regulation, for trade, for security, and for so much more.
Additionally, at next year’s Convention on Biological Diversity COP15, the ocean must also not be neglected.
While the climate COP26 may also have been delayed by the pandemic, this cannot delay increased climate ambition, and support for the implementation of increased ambition.
Responding to the climate emergency is of existential concern, and the momentary drop in emissions this year cannot be allowed to generate any complacency about global progress.
The climate finance commitments made by developed countries cannot be shirked during this pandemic, because to do so is to undermine the ability of the most vulnerable to mitigate and adapt to climate impacts.
The Green Climate Fund needs to continue its work on simplified access for the most vulnerable, such as small island developing states.
Solar power and a supporting microgrid will soon reduce our miniscule emissions, but also serve as a form of adaptation, increase our energy security and resilience, and reduce the volatilities of imported fossil fuels.
With the right support in implementation, we can go further in bringing forward an enhanced NDC before COP26.
As the current impacts of the climate emergency worsen, they are generating more security threats to vulnerable countries, especially small island states.
We welcome Germany’s initiative to convene a Security Council debate on the climate emergency this year.
We reiterate the call of the Pacific island states for the appointment of a Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Climate and Security to integrate these concerns into the Council’s agenda.
On many other international issues and organizations, such as in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the International Civil Aviation Organization, Taiwan can also make meaningful contributions to strengthening collective action.
We were among the first countries to ratify the Paris Agreement and the Nuclear Ban Treaty, after actively contributing to their negotiation.


  
     759     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PNG_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have seen this firsthand in my own country in support of our development priorities, including through the transformative partnership for sustainable development, to combat COVID-19, measles, polio and TB, foster peace and security in Bougainville and in our Highlands region, supporting our women and girls equality, empowerment and protection from gender-based violence and environmental protection and combating climate change.
It will also supports the August 2019 decision of the Pacific Islands Forum Leaders under the Blue Pacific Continent narrative to ensure that our maritime zones delineated in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea could not be challenged or reduced as a result of sea-level rise and climate change.
We therefore look forward with keen interest to the outcome of the International Law Commission’s Study Group on sea-level rise in relation to international law.
Mr President,
Under SDG 13, PNG continues to comply with the Paris Agreement under the UNFCCC and presented our National Determined Contributions (NDC) report to the United Nations which was recently reviewed.
On deforestation and forest degradation, I call upon the UN to assist to find a balance between cutting our trees and forest for revenue against preserving them to mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change given that PNG has 13% of the world’s rainforest and 7 per cent of the world’s biodiversity.
This continues to be an ongoing challenge for my Government in terms of meeting the peoples’ basic needs to sustain their livelihoods against preservation of the forests in response to global warming.


  
     760     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_POL_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We held a two-year-long mandate in the Security Council, we hosted climate conference COP24 in 2018 whereas our soldiers returned to the UN-peace keeping force in Lebanon, as part of UNIFIL.
As a three-time host of the UN climate conferences: COP14 in Poznan in 2008, COP19 in Warsaw in 2013 and COP24 in Katowice in 2018, Poland is committed to fight with environmental changes.
We need a climate friendly transition, which will be fair and balanced and take domestic conditions of every state into account.
We have already launched a transition aimed at ensuring a just green and low-emission economy.


  
     761     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PRT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We will uphold the ambitious agenda of commitments to strengthen the capacity of the UN and its Member States in responding to the major areas of international interest, including the Sustainable Development Goals, climate change, migration, hosting refugees, issues related to the sea and the sustainability of the oceans.
The crisis caused by this pandemic must not therefore serve as an excuse to disrupt policies aimed at countering the current climate emergency, which poses an existential threat to everyone.
On the contrary, there is a need to deepen the coordination between the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, thereby helping to build societies that are less vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather events.
Similarly, it is essential to deepen the relationship between oceans and climate change, while paying special attention to small island States.


  
     762     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_PRY_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is why the deepening of multilateralism is an effective tool for responding to the needs we share, such as the quest for peace, the protection of human rights, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, protection of the environment, the fight against climate change, and international trade based on principles and rules.


  
     763     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_QAT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has reminded us that we live on the same planet, and that multilateral cooperation is the only way to address the challenges of epidemics, climate and the environment in general, and it’s also preferable to remember this when dealing with the issues of poverty, war and peace, and realizing our common goals for security and stability.
Mr. President,
In the field of development assistance to developing countries and the least developed countries, and to support countries affected by the negative impacts of climate change, Qatar has fulfilled its pledge by providing a contribution of $100 million to support the Least developed countries and Small Island Developing States to deal with climate change.


  
     764     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ROU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Firm action is also needed in order to tackle the climate and environmental emergencies.
From rising sea levels to catastrophic weather events, we can no longer afford to ignore the risks of climate change.
We all have a duty to the future generations to turn Glasgow COP26 into a success and to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement.
We must all do our part to achieve a just, clean, secure and climate-sound future.


  
     765     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_RUS_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The issues of both environmental protection and climate change should remain the focus of joint efforts.
We are calling on all states to comply with them in good faith, particularly in working to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement.


  
     766     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_RWA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Five years ago, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was signed.
Implementing this framework will slow the pace of global warming and give our economies time to adapt to new technologies.
The Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, adopted four years ago, will play a major role by reducing the consumption of hydrofluorocarbons.
These milestones on gender, climate, and development demonstrate the achievements of multilateral action, while also reminding us how much remains to be done.


  
     767     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SAU_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, Distinguished Attendees,
From this podium we call for the intensification of global efforts to confront the great challenges facing humanity in the areas of climate change, poverty, organized crime, the spread of epidemics, and other challenges which require that we strengthen our cooperation to work for a bright future so generations to come may live in stability, peace, and security.


  
     768     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SDN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Moreover, global issues such as climate change, geopolitical tensions and humanitarian crises in their various forms mean that we must reach understandings that respect the values and interests of people.


  
     769     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SEN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Secondly, given the uncertainty of the situation, I will discuss the need for the United Nations, whose mission is universal, to remain focused on its major priorities through its three main pillars of peace and security, sustainable development — in particular the climate emergency — and the promotion and protection of human rights.
Together, we can face the multiple challenges of terrorism, violent extremism, armed conflict, financing for development, illicit financial flows, migration, poverty, exclusion, public health and climate change.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The determination with which we are combating the COVID-19 pandemic must also inspire us to fight effectively against climate change and safeguard biodiversity.
Indeed, there is no need to recall that climate change is having a devastating effect on populations, particularly in that it increases poverty, rural exodus, social exclusion and intercommunal tensions over natural resources.
If we want to avoid the apocalypse for future generations, we have no alternative but to implement the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement.
In particular, developed countries must honour their financial commitments, including the Green Climate Fund.
The crucial issue of climate change has been prioritized within that framework, particularly through the implementation of the Green Emerging Senegal Plan.


  
     770     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SGP_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Third, as we rebuild, we must continue the important work of increasing resilience to meet the challenges posed by the digital revolution, by cybersecurity threats, by climate change, and transboundary pollution.
I shall focus today on the challenges posed specifically by the digital revolution and climate change.
On climate change, the Paris Agreement established a very important global consensus for action on climate change.
Countries should therefore align recovery efforts with longterm climate goals.
Climate change presents a clear and present danger for Singapore and indeed, for all other small island nations.
Although our impact on global emissions is small, we are especially vulnerable, and that is why Singapore takes our climate action obligations so seriously.
We submitted our enhanced 2030 Nationally Determined Contribution to the Paris Agreement and Long-Term Low-Emissions Development Strategy for 2050 and beyond to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in March 2020, even in the midst of tackling this current pandemic.


  
     771     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SLB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Whilst dealing with a pandemic of global proportions, Solomon Islands continues to battle with the incremental effects of climate change and the negative impacts that it has on the livelihoods, security and wellbeing of Solomon Islanders.
Climate Change has resulted in changing weather patterns that have caused anomaly weather events of epic proportions.
Additionally, climate change has resulted in warming global temperatures which are melting the ice caps and causing sea levels to rise.
Both sea level rise and abnormal weather events have wreaked havoc on our infrastructure and homes not to mention threatening our food security and lives.
Solomon Islands for its part, remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint and doubling on our nationally determined contributions through our ongoing work on the Tina Hydropower project.
This 15-megawatt hydropower project will reduce our reliance on fossil fuels by 70 per cent.
I wish to remind us all, that in our collective efforts to combat the coronavirus, we must not lose sight of the need to address ongoing challenges brought about by climate change.
I once again reiterate my Government’s call for more action by those with a greater means of implementation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Let us adhere to what the science is telling us and strive to maintain the global temperature increase below 1.5 degrees Celsius.
In this regard, my Government welcomes the work that is being undertaken by the International Law Commission on the questions of sea level rise and sovereignty.
It is my government’s position that once national maritime zones are deposited with the United Nations, they should not be subject to change despite sea level rise.
Solomon Islands is an Ocean State, the Country’s sovereign territory should not change due to the effects of climate change and sea level rise.
As we continue to confront the problems that our world faces; from climate change, to the deteriorating health of our planet to the coronavirus; we must remember that they can only be addressed through collective action by each and every one of us.


  
     772     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SLE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

In particular, I acknowledge, with appreciation, his call for a global ceasefire during the current pandemic, the setting up of the COVID-19 response fund, advancing the urgent need to address Climate Change, and implementing the Sustainable Development Goals.
As a global family, it is only through our collective commitment to Multilateralism that we can effectively tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and meaningfully address the prevailing universal challenges of poverty, hunger, diseases, natural disasters, climate change, terrorism, human rights violations, cybersecurity, and transnational organized crime.
Mr. President,
Our collective multilateral aspiration and hope for a safer and more secure world is embodied in our adoption of the 2030 agenda and its 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs), the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, and the Paris Climate Change Agreement.
Mr. President,
In Sierra Leone, we believe that it will be impossible to make the necessary progress on global agendas such as education, health, gender equality, and climate change if we do not reduce inequality,violence, injustice, and corruption.
We are constructing and resurfacing more roads, expanding access to carbon-neutral energy in off-grid and other locations, extending ICT penetration, and improving access to potable water and sanitation facilities.
We have launched mitigation and protection strategies to forestall the adverse effects of climate change especially on our vulnerable populations.
We urge more international cooperation and the urgent implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     773     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SMR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Inadequate health systems; gaps in social protection; structural inequalities; environmental degradation; the climate crisis: the pandemic is showing us the fragility of our world.
Mr. President,
The effects of climate change, including increasingly frequent and severe weather phenomena, floods and droughts, diminishing fresh water resources, desertification, land degradation and sea-level rise, are threatening entire populations, depriving them of their livelihoods.
These effects of climate change can lead inter alia to food insecurity, large- scale displacement, and social tensions, exacerbating, prolonging or contributing to the risk of future conflicts.
Although greenhouse gas emissions are projected to drop by 6 per cent in 2020, and air quality has improved as a result of travel bans and the economic slowdown resulting from the pandemic, global community is far off track to meet either the 1.5 or 2°C targets called for in the Paris Agreement.
The decade 2010 to 2019 was the warmest decade ever.
Governments and private sector must accelerate the transitions to climate relationship with the environment and we make transformational changes in our economies.


  
     774     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SOM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is something that must be avoided at all costs as tackling today’s major global challenges, including insecurity, climate change, poverty and the increasing inequality, which is the driver of much division and discontent across the world, depend on effective cooperation and multilateral actions which bring the Sustainable Development Goals to fruition.


  
     775     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SRB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Adoption of the Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 as well as Paris Climate Change Agreement are key steps in facing some of the biggest challenges today — global economic instability, growing social inequality and climate change effects.


  
     776     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_STP_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The persistence of violent extremism must continue to receive our attention but not to the detriment of other equally important challenges to human existence, which are reflected in the Sustainable Development Goals, such as combating poverty, climate change, and sea piracy, among others.


  
     777     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SUR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Despite considerable progress made in global discussions on a variety of matters — from climate change, sustainable development, migration, refugees, terrorism, cyber-warfare to nuclear proliferation — we have experienced that multilateralism has occasionally come under attack.
Multilateralism for climate change
Mr. President,
While the focus of the international community is currently on managing and containing the further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we should continue to dedicate our attention to other challenges of equal or even greater impact on the sustainable development of countries and the entire planet.
Addressing the impact of climate change is one of these challenges.
As a country with 239 miles of a low-lying coastline, Suriname is among the top 10 of most vulnerable countries with respect to the disastrous effects of sea-level rise as a result of global warming.
Despite this position, Suriname has taken the lead as the country with the highest forest cover and low deforestation rate, to advocate for the mobilization of financial resources in support of our sustainable development, while making a significant contribution to mitigating global warming.
It is estimated that our standing forests store 12 gigatons of forest carbon per year.


  
     778     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SVK_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Most notably the climate change, which is undoubtedly the greatest threat to our common future.
Experts estimate, that by 2100 the climate change will be five times as deadly as COVID-19.
In climate change, we all know what to do.
Then, we can change any threat — be it COVID-19 or climate change — into an opportunity for the benefit of all.


  
     779     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SVN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The COP26 next year should be a real game-changer.
Recently and for the first time, Slovenia contributed one million Euros to the UN Green Climate Fund.
My personal advocacy to environmental protection is both global and local, based on introducing public debates on climate change, establishing committee for climate policy and supporting youth movements.
I would like to reaffirm Slovenia’s and my personal commitment to stop an unprecedented rate of biodiversity loss and halt climate change effects.


  
     780     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SWE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have the opportunity to jointly address shared challenges:
-	the pandemic,
-	the climate crisis,
-	widening inequalities,
-	violations of international law
-	and threats to international peace.
Excellencies,
Climate change is one of our most pressing issues.
We must reshape our societies and lower emissions.
Sweden is striving to be the first fossil-free welfare nation but welcome all competition to beat us to the post.
62/91
21-00394
13/01/2021
A/75/592/Add.8
We will continue to work with the industrial sector to achieve net-zero emissions, not least within the “Leadership Group for Industry Transition” that we launched with India at last year’s Climate Summit.
We call for more ambitious nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement.
We will work for an ambitious outcome at COP26 in Glasgow.
The European Union is clear on the need for the implementation of the Minsk agreements.
We call on the United States and Russia to agree on an extension of the “New START Treaty”, and on China to join discussions on follow- on arrangements.


  
     781     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_SYC_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Such actions should include building capacity for small island developing states to cope with and recover from external shocks such as pandemics like COVID-19, other forms of disasters, and impacts of climate change.
International financial institutions should re-examine their eligibility criteria to tailor SIDS’ access to concessional financing to take into account our extreme vulnerability to economic, climate and now public health shocks that put us at particular risk and disadvantage.
Such a compact will require the design of new, and enhancement of existing financial instruments to guide SIDS economies through the current crisis, create a responsive system where we maintain our gains, reinforce resilience to climate change and achieve sustainable development.
We should adopt a similar approach to climate action to maintain and increase climate ambition in the context of the pandemic and prevent a post-COVID rebound in greenhouse gas emissions.
While the effects of climate breakdown will continue to impact us long after we’ve dealt with the pandemic, COVID-19 presents a new opportunity to take action on climate change as countries make drastic changes to infrastructure, jobs and investment.
Achieving the 1.5-degree Celsius goal remains critical if we are to leave no country behind.
The drop in greenhouse gas emissions and improvement in air quality during the pandemic is only temporary, and research shows it will have a negligible impact on the climate crisis.
We do not know how long the COVID-19 pandemic will last, but we know we are heading towards a temperature increase of approximately 3 degrees Celsius if business continues as usual.
Climate change is the number one threat to humanity.
The postponement of COP26 to November 2021 does not mean a postponement of climate action and of urgently-needed efforts to raise climate ambitions.
Seychelles’ updated Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) or climate pledge to the Paris Agreement will accordingly have a whole chapter on harnessing the ocean that surrounds our islands for nature-based climate action.
Seychelles’ NDC will champion blue carbon ecosystems such as mangroves and the vast expanses of seagrass meadows, which form part of our new marine protected areas.
It will enable us as a big ocean state to contribute to the global fight against climate change far more than when we relied solely on land-based actions.
Seychelles’ protection of nearly a third of our EEZ for ocean conservation, sustainability and climate action shows that countries’ responses to the health and financial crisis caused by COVID19 do not need to be at the expense of nature and climate.
Many argue that society is unwilling to make the behavioural changes necessary to address climate change effectively.
We must not lose sight of the fact that the stimulus packages aimed at rescuing economies from the coronavirus crisis will determine the shape of the global economy — a more financially stable, socially inclusive and low-carbon economy — for years to come.
A transformation which will take us all, the most vulnerable countries and fragile economies included, into a more sustainable and resilient post-COVID world better equipped to meet the goals of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on climate change, and for small island developing states.


  
     782     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TCD_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

“The highly relevant theme of this session, ‘The future we want, the United Nations we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism — confronting COVID-19 through effective multilateral action’, fully underlines the importance that we must all attach to international cooperation and multilateralism as an irreplaceable means to address major common challenges such as pandemics, climate change, terrorism, poverty and inequality, to name but a few.
“Excellencies,
“Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is worth recalling that, last year, at the General Assembly during its seventy-fourth session, we assessed the progress made and the enormous gaps that remained relative to fulfilling the commitments we made within the framework of the 2030 Agenda in terms of ending extreme poverty, ensuring access to quality education, combating climate change, reducing inequalities and ensuring inclusion.
“Excellencies,
“Ladies and Gentlemen,
“Concerning the issue of climate change, Chad — a Sahelian country subject to the harmful effects of this existential threat, which strongly affects the sectors that make up the foundation of its economy — remains committed to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
“In that light, the urgent need to implement the measures adopted within the framework of financing the fight against climate change, particularly those aimed at marshalling substantial resources for developing countries, is no longer in doubt.


  
     783     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TGO_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Moreover, climate change, especially the destructive weather events that we have recently seen in Africa, and the migration crisis are challenges that the Organization must meet with bold and sustainable responses if it is to achieve the ideals it was founded on.


  
     784     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_THA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Finally, I take this opportunity to reaffirm Thailand’s commitment to support the agendas of the United Nations, be they peace and security, development, climate change management, commitments to human rights, and the promotion of partnerships between various sectors.


  
     785     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TJK_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are hopeful that the Decade of Action to deliver the Global Goals will help to seek ways of sustainable solutions to such pressing global challenges, as climate change, poverty, gender inequality and financing.
We should give an utmost importance to climate change challenges, which in this process pose serious hardships to all nations, including to Tajikistan.
Over the past sixty years, the average annual temperature in Tajikistan has increased by one degree.
Our country is among the less carbon dioxide emitters in the world.
In this context, I wish to once again offer the following proposals towards seeking the ways of addressing the climate change, which I had previously introduced in other international fora:
2.	Comprehensive support by donor countries and international and regional financial institutions in an implementation of national strategies and programs for adaptation to climate change.


  
     786     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TLS_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The disrespect for Nature has caused climate changes with negative impact on Humankind.
Thus, Timor-Leste believes that the Paris Agreement on climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals embody essential means and issues on the road to the reconstruction of our countries.


  
     787     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TON_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
While Small Island Developing States, including Tonga, contribute to no more than one percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, it is unfortunate that we continue to bear the brunt of this climate injustice.
Our Pacific Island Forum Leaders have consistently echoed the need for urgent climate action in their communique, every year, for at least the last 30 years.
This year marks the fifth-year anniversary of the adoption of the Paris Agreement.
And it is only befitting for us to capture this historic moment through reaffirming our commitment to achieving the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C.
Tonga is currently reviewing its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), and its Enhanced NDCs will be submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
Though the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 26) to the UNFCCC that was to be held in Glasgow, United Kingdom, has been postponed to 2021, Tonga remains committed to prepare its Long-Term Low Emission Development Strategies (LT-LEDS) which will be communicated to the Secretariat of the UNFCCC at COP 26.
Mr. President,
Tonga continues to recognize the importance of the ocean-climate nexus, and further continues to note with grave concern the detrimental impacts of climate change on our marine environment.
Mr. President,
Tonga maintains that the baselines which presently determine our territorial boundaries, once established under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, should remain unchanged despite effects of sea level rise and any climate change modification that might ensue.


  
     788     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TTO_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
It is widely acknowledged that climate change is a threat to our very existence.
As a Small Island Developing State, Trinidad and Tobago remains at high risk of being affected by the harmful effects of climate change which have already been manifested in coastal erosion resulting from the rise in sea level.
In this regard, our country continues to place emphasis on multi-pronged approaches for future adaptation to and mitigation of climate change, within the constraints of our limited financial capability.


  
     789     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TUR_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Another important issue where we have an obligation to act together is climate change.


  
     790     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_TUV_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

The UN members must work collaboratively together to build back better countries and economies that:
(i)	are inclusive and leave no one behind;
(ii)	protect the health and wellbeing of all;
(iii)	preserve our natural and marine environment;
(iv)	are low emissions and climate smart; and
(v)	build our resilience to future crisis
Mr. President,
Our United Nations has in place systems and processes that should and can place us well to face both health and economic crisis.
We have the Paris Agreement.
While COVID-19 is our immediate crisis, climate change remained the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and wellbeing of the Pacific and its peoples in the long run.
Pacific Islands Forum Leaders last year reaffirmed this commitment in the Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent Climate Change Action Now.
The shared prosperity and security of our Blue Pacific can only safely exist if the international community pursues efforts to limit global warming to 1.5 °C.
The transformation and investment response to the COVID-19 pandemic must also serve to build our resilience to the impacts of climate change.
If we failed this, then we are putting additional debt into our already exhausted capacities, which can further exacerbate climate crises going forward.
Decarbonization remains central to our effort to combat the impacts of climate change, and help build the resilient of small and vulnerable economies and societies.
The Paris Agreement’s 2020 commitments to update NDCs and to develop low emissions development strategies remain critical.
They should be synergized with covid19 recovery efforts that accelerate transition to decarbonization and build resilience.
For atoll nations like Tuvalu, agriculture is difficult with rising sea levels.
For the last few years, with the assistance of our development partners, we have invested on new agricultural food production systems that are more resilient to climate change and sea level rise.


  
     791     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_UGA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

“Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges of our time.
We continue to witness climate-change disasters across the globe that result in considerable loss of life and property.
Addressing climate change calls for effective and bold multilateral action from all of us.
The Government will continue to invest in climate adaptation and mitigation measures that include expanding access to and consumption of clean energy in order to enhance production, as well as increasing forest and wetland cover, in line with our ambitious nationally determined contributions.
Those investments will enable us to halt, reduce and reverse environmental degradation and the adverse effects of climate change, as well as to improve the sustainable use of natural resources for inclusive economic growth.
“Mobilizing the means of implementation for mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate change, including resilience, remains critical, particularly at the international level.
In that regard, Uganda will support bold action proposals at the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, scheduled for 2021, in the areas of mitigation, adaptation and financing.
We therefore urge developed countries to fulfil their financial commitments in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to provide $100 billion annually by 2020 to assist developing States parties in both mitigation and adaptation.


  
     792     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_URY_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, Uruguay wishes to reiterate its support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its firm commitment to objectives in that area.
Uruguay has developed a National Climate Change Response Plan, which addresses risk prevention, mitigation and adaptation.


  
     793     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_USA_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

China’s carbon emissions are nearly twice what the U.S. has, and it’s rising fast.
By contrast, after I withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord, last year America reduced its carbon emissions by more than any country in the agreement.


  
     794     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_UZB_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Another acute problem of our time is related to global climate change.


  
     795     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_VAT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Some months later, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was also adopted.
We must seriously ask ourselves if there is the political will to allocate with honesty, responsibility and courage, more human, financial and technological resources to mitigate the negative effects of climate change, as well as to help the poorest and most vulnerable populations who suffer from them the most.”
As a concrete sign of the Holy See’s commitment to care for our common home, I recently ratified the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol.


  
     796     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_VCT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Amidst the rising tides of Climate Change; the scourge of desertification and land degradation, including in the Sahel; the challenges to biodiversity; the social, political and economic inequities of the global economy; and the uneveness and contradictions of a lopsided multilateral system in which the norms and rules are conveniently applied and upheld in favour of the powerful, the bellowing calls for global reform and a renewed multilateralism reverberate ever more loudly.
The list is long and includes: unilateralist sanctions; weaponising of the trade, banking and financial system; the misuse and abuse of so-called “blacklists” by developed countries against developing ones; the unilateralist termination of correspondent banking relations on purely spurious, and hypocritical, grounds; the breaking of international law, willy-nilly, to serve narrowly nationalist interests on this or that issue, including the existential matter of climate change; and the relegation of Small Island Developing States to the expendable margins of the global political economy.


  
     797     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_VEN_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We make a call to achieve the highest political commitment to fight climate change which is a reality and an urgent priority.
We recognize the importance of strengthening mitigation and adaptation actions, in accordance with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement.
We therefore reaffirm the importance of the means of implementation for developing countries to carry out their climate actions.
Mr. President,
The United Nations and humanity as a whole face a deep and complex crisis, combining the COVID-19 pandemic with the global climate change challenges and sustainable development.


  
     798     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_VUT_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
COVID-19 has also shone a new light on existing global challenges and conflicts, including the escalating threat of arms race and terrorism; continuous human rights abuses; climate change; the displacement of people; the scourge of non-communicable disease, and the disruptions of the technological revolution that is redefining the future of work.
Ever looming is the threat of future disasters and extreme weather events, which are being fuelled and exacerbated by climate change.
For us and other small island developing states especially, our biggest threats are global — most notably climate change and the management of our oceans.
Second, climate financing needs to increase to ensure the recapitalization of financial instruments such as the Green Climate Fund.
Again, we call for the processes to access these funds to be simplified and made easier to access in order to allow small island developing states like Vanuatu implement their climate change mitigation and adaptation priorities reflected on various frameworks of implementation including the National Determined Contributions (NDCs).


  
     799     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_WSM_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are committed to multilateralism with the United Nations representing the last bastion against the challenges and uncertainties that beset our world: from pandemics to economic crises, climate change to systemic discrimination, endemic poverty to dangerous threats to peace and security.
As Pacific SIDS, our future is already uncertain and compromised if the world continues with the current trajectory of emissions causing more than 3 degrees of global warming.
While the pandemic introduced temporary lockdowns; severe cyclones continue to rampage, coastlines whittle away, sea level rises higher, and our oceans yield to the gnawing acidification.
While border closures were observed, climate change knows no restrictions and respects no boundaries.
Climate procrastination must end now before the window closes on any chance for us to stabilise the Earth’s climate.
Critical meetings such as UNFCCC COP26, CBD COP15 and the 2020 UN Ocean Conference have been postponed.
We need to uphold the Paris Agreement commitments and maintain the needed momentum on ambitious climate action.
We must mobilise all leaders from governments, NGOs, private sector and empower our youth and rural communities to fight the ongoing threat of climate change and unite against environmental degradation.
While it is small island states like Samoa that are facing the brunt of the impacts of climate change, no country is immune to the reaches of climate change.
A UN that will continue to recognise the unique vulnerabilities of SIDS to the impacts of climate change by ensuring the effective implementation of the SAMOA Pathway.


  
     800     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ZAF_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Your Excellencies,
We have no choice but to work together to address the climate change crisis.
As we rebuild in the aftermath of this pandemic we have an opportunity to place the global economy on a low-carbon, climate resilient developmental path.
The global recovery effort must place climate change adaptation, mitigation and support at its centre — in line with the Paris Agreement and other multilateral environmental commitments.


  
     801     
   
FILE: UNGA75_2020_ZWE_75_2020_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like other nations in the region, we are facing humanitarian challenges which in our case have been worsened by the illegal sanctions, the negative impact of climate change, and compounded by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     802     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_AGO_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is on today’s agenda, as we see from the grave consequences that humankind is facing on every continent.


  
     803     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ALB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is another key priority in our national agenda.
Convinced of the urgency to curb greenhouse-gas emissions in line with
the Paris Climate Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in July 2019, Albania became the first country in the region with an endorsed strategy on climate change and related action plans, with policy objectives and concrete actions designed to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.
A special law on climate change was adopted in December 2020.
Further, in support of the objectives of the European Union (EU) Green Deal, Albania and other Western Balkan countries signed two declarations in November 2020, one on the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans and one on developing a common regional market with a view to making the economy sustainable and climate neutral by 2050.
As a net clean-energy producer, Albania is also actively engaged in doing its part to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 45 per cent in the next decade and achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.


  
     804     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_AND_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

It has made great strides in such crucial areas as human rights, poverty eradication, building democratic institutions, the fight against climate change, sustainable development and the protection of the most vulnerable people in armed conflicts.
The world is once again witnessing entire families fleeing their home countries in search of a better future, humanitarian crises worsening, the planet sounding the alarm that the point of no return on climate change will soon be reached and the wholesale backsliding on women’s rights.
We had the opportunity to highlight the essential role of multilateralism, especially in the face of challenges, such as the coronavirus pandemic and climate change, as no country or State, no matter how powerful, can meet a challenge of such magnitude without the participation of the international community at large.
The climate emergency is the other great challenge that we must consider from an inclusive point of view.
The COP26 to be held next November in Glasgow will be the last opportunity for the most powerful economies to transform their commitments into reality and achieve carbon neutrality.
It is in this spirit that, as we live in a mountain environment, we are addressing the climate crisis.
Last August, every media source echoed the conclusions of the latest report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which warned of the serious consequences of climate change and global warming.
In terms of climate change mitigation and adaptation, Andorra has committed itself to the terms of the Paris Agreement and is investing in renewable energy production and carbon taxation to reduce its emissions and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
The imminent entry into force of the carbon tax has also enabled us to significantly lower the cost of public transport.


  
     805     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ARE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Although it is negatively exploited by some, advanced technology is a vital tool for achieving peace and addressing urgent challenges, such as climate change.
In that context, climate change remains one of the most pressing challenges, especially due to its increasingly serious repercussions.
We believe that, if we intensify our international efforts, we will be able not only to reduce those repercussions and adapt to them but also to achieve many economic benefits for countries by investing in solutions that mitigate the effects of climate change.
We therefore stress the need to develop a suitable global response at the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26) and all relevant meetings.
At the same time, we view the Paris Agreement on Climate Change as an exceptional opportunity to support economic growth and create job opportunities.
For its part, the United Arab Emirates will work with its partners to find solutions and explore opportunities that reduce the effects of climate change, including by hosting COP28.
We also commend the tireless efforts of the International Renewable Energy Agency in Abu Dhabi to help countries to adopt renewable energy and provide solutions that address the challenges of climate change.
During our membership of the Council, my country will use its experience, expertise and approaches to build bridges to address the most pressing challenges, including extremism and terrorism, regional crises, epidemics and climate change, as well as to address issues involving women and youth and to strengthen their role in achieving peace and security.


  
     806     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ARG_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I come to this great forum at a unique time for humankind, when we face a triple pandemic with common roots: the pandemic of global inequality, the pandemic of climate change and the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.
We are fully committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
With the transition towards renewable energy; the adoption of clean technologies to reduce methane emissions; the elimination of illegal deforestation; and the rehabilitation of our ecosystems.
All those commitments are a further step by our country towards a path consistent with the 1.5°C target and carbon neutrality by 2050.
As the Secretary-General said, it is frankly distressing that, in 10 years, the commitment to providing $100 billion to developing countries for climate action has failed to be realized.
Climate justice will be a chimera without comprehensive financial and tax equity, which would contribute to real social justice.
This issue must give rise to a major environmental pact of solidarity that includes low- and middle-income countries with high climate and financial vulnerability.
Debt-for-climate swaps are another positive step.


  
     807     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ARM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Armenia is ready to make every effort to contribute to overcoming the current global challenges such as climate change, the COVID-19 pandemic, issues of international peace, security and sustainable development.


  
     808     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ATG_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Antigua and Barbuda warns now that the international system has to prepare for future pandemics which are surely coming, particularly as action on Climate Change has also been a failure.
The impact of Climate Change will undoubtedly bring new vector borne diseases and viruses that jump from animal to man.
The same argument applies to Climate Change.
Mr. President, Antigua and Barbuda hopes that COP26 in Glasgow, at the end of October, will be an inflection point at which all nations will commit themselves to saving the planet.
There is no planet B.
The consequences of Climate Change will be catastrophic.
Recent research, published by the Royal Institute of International Affairs, reveals a dire situation for the world unless action is taken now by the world’s greatest polluters to significantly reduce their CO2 emissions.
Experts are concerned that climate change is likely to increase the prevalence of emerging infectious diseases and vector-borne diseases.
They argue that Climate Change disrupts ecosystems and increases the risk of diseases jumping to new hosts.
Scientists have been warning for many years of the probability of pandemics increasing as a result of climate change.
In 2008, a study published in the journal Nature, found that over the previous decade nearly one-third of emerging infectious diseases were vector-borne, with the jumps to humans corresponding to changes in the climate.
Mr President, it is evident that global solidarity and firm commitments are required; commitments that will result in emission cuts to reduce global temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius of preindustrial levels.
Equally vital is access to quality financing and climate technologies in order to save our planet.
And, contracting debt to pay for recovery from the effects of Climate Change and to build resilience is not the answer to the problems of small states that are already burdened by debt and are the worst affected.
Let me here thank the Government of Denmark that has announced its proposal to significantly increase its contribution to climate aid.
Mr President, the news that Denmark will contribute more than 1 per cent of the global collective target for climate financing is welcome with deep appreciation.
It is my hope that Denmark’s action will help to galvanize others to contribute their fair share to the collective efforts required to address climate change at C0P26.
Mr President, industrialized countries have an obligation to assist the states most affected by Climate Change because they created a problem in the first instance.
Climate ODA should be seen as a form of climate reparations to compensate for past climate damage.
In addition to official development assistance, debt swaps, and debt cancellation; climate related debts would help small states to build financial capacity to accelerate the transition into renewable technologies.
This is a non-confrontational form of climate justice.
Mr President, there is an obvious need for a realignment of the international financial architecture to accelerate the global transition into renewables, in order to achieve a carbon neutral world within the next two decades.
While developed countries in North America and Europe are urging small and vulnerable states to transition to alternative energy, they are providing $1.6 trillion annually to subsidize fossil fuel businesses.
If developed countries simply shifted their spending from providing subsidies to fossil fuel businesses to helping developing countries to cope with the impact of Climate Change, not only would they not have to spend one additional cent, they would also create greater opportunities for renewable energy in their own countries.
The world would also be less polluted, and Climate Change would retreat.
Mr President, I want to remind everyone that investments in nuclear armaments and other weapons cannot sustain the planet, but investment to combat climate change will certainly save our Earth, our single homeland and our human civilisation.
That is why we should all work diligently at COP26 in Glasgow to strengthen everyone’s commitment to 1.5°C for us all to stay alive.
Mr President, I have concentrated my statement at this year’s assembly on the COVID-19 pandemic and Climate Change because they are the two overarching issues that confront mankind.


  
     809     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_AUS_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenge of climate change & transitioning to a net-zero global energy economy
Finally Mr President,
Australia is determined to play our part in meeting the global challenge of climate change, as the world makes the transition to a net-zero global energy economy — a new energy economy.
Australia has a proven track record when it comes to setting, achieving and exceeding our commitments to responsibly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We exceeded our Kyoto commitments.
Our emissions in the year to March 2021 were 21 per cent below 2005 levels.
We are well on the way to exceed our 2030 Paris commitment of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 per cent below 2005 levels.
And we are committed to achieving net zero emissions.
My Government, the Australian Government, will release our Long Term Emissions Reduction Strategy ahead of the UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow at COP26.
How we achieve the reduction in global emissions — in our own emissions, in individual nations’ emissions — while still lifting living standards across all nations.
That’s why we’re investing around $20 billion to commercialize promising new technologies like clean hydrogen, green steel, long duration energy storage and carbon capture — vital to meeting the global task to achieve net zero emissions.
This is critical for the good of developing countries, who we all know face the steepest challenge in reducing their emissions.
We know that if we can support developing economies to embrace and use the technologies that achieve net zero emissions, and see their economies grow and increase their jobs, that is not only wonderful for those economies and their peoples, but it also is good for Australia.
That’s why we’re helping other countries reduce their emissions and build resilience to climate change, too.
It’s why we’ve set aside $1.5 billion in practical climate finance globally — and it will have a particular focus on our Pacific family, dealing directly.
We’re up for achieving net zero emissions — a challenge that we know will be met in partnership.


  
     810     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_AUT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am obviously talking about climate change.
Austria will continue to be at the vanguard, when it comes to ambitious and bold green recovery and climate action.


  
     811     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_AZE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Azerbaijan ratified the Paris Climate Agreement, with a voluntary commitment to achieve a 35 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to the base year 1990.
Furthermore, we are exploring the possibilities for setting conditional targets for 2050 under the Paris Agreement.


  
     812     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BEL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Can we be relieved when climate change is becoming a matter of life and death for a growing number of people?
That brings me to a second vulnerability that requires our attention, the climate crisis and the urgent need to put sustainability at the heart of all our efforts.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s sixth assessment report, published last month, says unequivocally that the increase in carbon-dioxide concentration and global temperature is unprecedented.
Every region of the world is now witnessing the adverse effects of climate change sooner than expected.
This makes the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Glasgow, the most important meeting of recent years.
With the European Green Deal, the European Union intends to be climate neutral by 2050 and to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 55 per cent by 2030.
We need to do whatever it takes to limit global warming to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change target of 1.5°C.
That is why we must deliver on our financing commitment of $100 billion and why Belgium plans to increase its contribution to international climate finance.
If we fail to act on the climate crisis, not only will we lose more lives, but global tensions, instability and insecurity will increase.
Those three vulnerabilities — health, climate and security — are a threat to human rights and their universality.
Let that also be our common objective when it comes to climate, security and human rights.


  
     813     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BFA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, in addition to the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries in the world today are facing other scourges, such as terrorism, climate change, poverty, etc.
Mr. President,
Ladies and Gentlemen
Concerning climate change, the frequency of extreme weather events with their devastating consequences calls on us to take urgent, firm and concerted action.
The climate emergency has been confirmed by the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which highlights the acceleration of global warming and unequivocally attributes it to human behaviour.
Burkina Faso has ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and was among the first countries to make nationally determined contributions (NDCs) in 2015 when the Agreement was adopted.
Five years after the adoption of the Paris Agreement, the COP26, scheduled to be held in November in Glasgow, Scotland, will be an important moment to assess our common commitments and global attempts to fight the climate crisis.
In order to succeed in our fight against the climate crisis, adaptation is paramount.


  
     814     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BGD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our calls for vaccine equality, our firm position against any form of injustice, such as against the Palestinian people, the resolution of the Rohingya crisis and promoting climate justice are a few examples of our global commitment.
Secondly, the pandemic has disproportionately impacted climate-vulnerable countries.
The report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Working Group I provided a grim scenario of our planet.
Unless immediate measures are taken, the devastating impacts of climate change will be irreversible.
We therefore call upon the rich and industrialized countries to cut emissions, compensate for the loss and damage and ensure adequate financing and technology transfer for adaptation and resilience-building.
As Chair of the Climate Vulnerable Forum and the Vulnerable Twenty Group of Ministers of Finance, we launched the Mujib Climate Prosperity Plan — Decade 2030, outlining a transformative agenda from climate vulnerability to climate prosperity.
The upcoming twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow, provides us with an opportunity to rally support for new and inclusive ideas in that regard.


  
     815     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BGR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The most urgent tasks ahead of us are:
•	 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus;
•	 to focus on the global economic recovery, decreasing growing
economic disparities;
•	to accelerate progress in climate change and sustainable development;
•	 to combat terrorism and transborder crime, as well as enhancing cybersecurity.
COVID-19 pandemic and climate change combined resulted in wasting an entire decade of progress in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in many parts of the world.
There is no doubt that the sustainability cannot be achieved without dealing with the effects of climate change, environmental degradation, and loss of biodiversity.


  
     816     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BHR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Kingdom of Bahrain shares the international community’s interest in climate change and its effects on human life and in the efforts being made to mitigate its impact on the environment.
We therefore look forward to the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The plan also seeks to reduce carbon emissions, as part of international efforts to counter climate change, under the directive of His Majesty the King, in order to improve the country’s environment and climate situation.


  
     817     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BHS_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must cooperate to mitigate the effects of climate change.
Hurricane Dorian was strengthened by waters that were well above average temperatures; the Earth’s changing climate means that hurricanes like Dorian linger longer and cause greater damage.
I invite any leader who believes we still have plenty of time to address climate change to visit Abaco and Grand Bahama in our country.
For island nations such as ours, climate change is here, and it is a real and present danger.
The recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warned that avoiding the worst outcomes requires immediate action; this is, as the Secretary-General noted, a “code red” moment.
We stand with CARICOM countries and small island developing States to remind the world that those who are hit hardest by the impact of climate change are the least responsible.
The twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change cannot be like the 25 sessions that preceded it.
If we are the serious leaders these times require, we must raise our ambitions and make real commitments to cut emissions.
We must make real progress on bridging the divides in investment and access to technology and skills, especially in areas relevant to climate mitigation and adaptation.
Along with our sister nations in CARICOM, the Bahamas calls for greater climate financing and the need for more engagement and progress on a climate-investment platform, and, as a matter of priority, more innovative financing and debt solutions are needed, including debt-for-climate-adaptation swaps.
We also need adequate resourcing and timely access to the Green Climate Fund and the Climate Finance Accelerator.
We are going to build structural and economic resilience in a green recovery, with plans to invest in climate-smart infrastructure and environmental protection.


  
     818     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BIH_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change and global warming, both visible and scientifically proven through the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), are key issues that are restricting the path to sustainable development.
According to the 2018 IPCC special report, our efforts to slow global warming and combat climate change are generally not yielding the results we need to achieve by 2050, and this year’s report issues the same warning.
Climate change is no longer a matter of warnings from the scientific community.
Finding answers to climate change is a costly process, but it will cost even more if we do not take the need to accelerate climate-change mitigation activities seriously.
We have taken on that commitment because the survival of humankind, dependent as it is on mitigating temperature rise, is a value that we must defend at all costs.
I believe that, in the long run, this necessary response will cost the less developed and developing countries — the countries that continue to rely on energy derived from fossil fuels — the most.
Therefore, financial support for the implementation of the green agenda is extremely important, with contributions from the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, as well as such regional associations as the European Union (EU).
In addition to the obligations set forth in the Paris Agreement, additional standards are imposed by the EU and accepted by countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the process of stabilization and association with the Union.
Nevertheless, Bosnia and Herzegovina stands behind its promise to contribute to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions.


  
     819     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BLZ_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

No one can deny that the planet is getting hotter.
The facts are that July 2021 was the hottest month ever.
Every one of the past four decades has been successively warmer than any preceding them since 1850.
Global temperatures are now 1.2°C degrees warmer.
Sea levels are rising.
The global average sea level has risen faster since 1900 than during any other century in the past 3,000 years.
Loans
originally committed for development and climate change were diverted to cover emergency health needs and mitigate the impact on the unemployed.
Despite the inclination to retreat towards nationalist tendencies, the truth is that whether we are talking about the health crisis or the climate crisis, the scale of the challenge, the magnitude of the impact and the urgency of the action required cannot be met by any one country alone.
The latest scientific assessment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change lays the blame firmly on human activity.
Belize, like other SIDS, is on the front lines of a climate crisis for which it is not responsible.
Belize’s nationally determined contribution covers new targets in both adaptation and mitigation.
Belize is committed to developing a long-term strategy aligned with achieving net-zero global emissions by 2050.
We are doing our part, and we expect the developed countries and major emitters to do theirs.
Indeed, ambitious commitments from the Group of 20 alone could keep us on a path to limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is our last best hope to limit global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
We call for a ramping-up of collective ambition so that global emissions are reduced by 50 per cent by 2030.
That includes meeting and exceeding the $100 billion pledge made in Copenhagen 12 years ago.
We must save the planet from the irreversible effects of climate change, but only if we act collectively and urgently.


  
     820     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BOL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We once again reaffirm that the capitalist system is one of the main causes of the climate crisis.
The growing threat posed by non-economic risks to financial and macroeconomic stability, such as the climate crisis, has highlighted the need to devise policies that help in transitioning to a new economic model.
In line with our approach, we have conceptualized the Bolivian vision for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
First, the only concrete solution to limit the temperature rise to 1.5°C is through the distribution of the carbon budget among countries, based on climate justice criteria and according to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Secondly, the countries of central capitalism must assume the climate debt and the historical compensation with the rest of the countries of the world through financial cooperation, technology transfer and capacity-building, thereby complying with the relevant agreements established to date.
Thirdly, it is vital that we return to the knowledge, practices and experiences of indigenous nations and peoples in building societies and ecosystems that are resilient to climate change.
Fourthly, there is an urgent need to strengthen and speed up countries’ efforts against the climate crisis, particularly approaches that are not based on carbon markets — efforts that must be effective in reducing domestic greenhouse-gas emissions.
Let us work to end the climate crisis and build equality so that enjoying life means access to education, health care, food, decent work, comprehensive development and true harmony with Mother Earth.


  
     821     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BRA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a result, there is less fossil fuel consumption and a decrease in operational costs associated with doing business in Brazil, especially in connection with food production.
Our modern, sustainable low- carbon agriculture currently feeds more than 1 billion people around the world while occupying only 8 per cent of our national territory.
We moved up the target date, from 2060 to 2050, for attaining the goal of climate neutrality — net zero.
At the upcoming twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we will pursue consensus on rules governing a global carbon credit market.
We hope that industrialized countries will indeed fulfil their climate financing commitments in substantial amounts.
The future of green jobs lies in Brazil, in renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, low-carbon industries, basic sanitation, waste management and tourism.


  
     822     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BRB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

How much more must global temperatures rise before we end the burning of fossil fuels?
How much more must sea levels climb in small island developing States before those who profited from the stockpiling of greenhouse gases contribute to repairing the loss and damage that they occasioned, rather than asking us to deplete the fiscal space that we have for development to cure the damage caused by the greed of others?
The answer is that we have the means to give every child on the planet a tablet, we have the means to give every adult a vaccine and we have the means to invest in protecting the most vulnerable on our planet from a changing climate — but we have chosen not to.
Who will stand up in the name of all those who have died because of the climate crisis?
Who will stand up for the small island developing States that need 1.5°C to survive on our way to the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change?


  
     823     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BRN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is because the threat of climate change continues to exist during the pandemic, and the recent forecast of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report is not positive at all.
We already made commitments under the Paris Agreement, and all that remains is for us to uphold and implement them.
In this important ‘climate year’, we welcome the UK’s Presidency and hosting of the COP26, and their calls for the world to come together, deliver, and raise climate ambitions where possible.
We look forward to a meaningful outcome at the COP26 in Glasgow, that would set the tone and direction for global efforts in the future.


  
     824     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BTN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would also like to thank Your Excellency as well as Prime Minister Johnson for organising the Leaders Roundtable on Climate Change five days ago.
I spoke on behalf of the 46 LDCs and we are already excited for concrete results out of the COP26 in the coming month.
In all the discussions about food security, one immediate challenge besides the pandemic is the climate change that has tested the resilience of the food we grow as well as the patience of the growers.
If we mean what we say about working for the next generation, we must talk about tough climate laws as a component of NDCs from all countries.


  
     825     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_BWA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we continue to battle against and strive to recover from the dreadful coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic — and many other pre-existing global challenges, such as the climate crisis — your vision statement, which is based on five rays of hope, serves as an inspiration to many, including my own country, Botswana.
They include human rights, climate change, gender equality and the empowerment of women, terrorism and violent extremism, inequalities and injustices.
You are assuming your global leadership role, Mr. President, at a time when the world is grappling with a myriad other pressing global challenges, including devastating natural disasters associated with climate change, with small island countries among the most vulnerable.
Similarly, my own region of Southern Africa has not been spared by the terrible path of climate-change-induced disasters, as evidenced in our rainy seasons, which have triggered floods, combined with the devastating cyclones Kenneth, Idai and Eloise.
While the past decade was already the hottest of our planet on record, in recent months more record-breaking temperatures and other climate-change-induced incidents have signalled a real danger of increased global warming.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has again recently warned of a code red for humankind.
Today, more than ever before, our planet has clearly become dangerously warmer, triggering melting ice, rising sea levels, floods, cyclones, hurricanes, droughts and other extreme weather events.
We have all long recognized that climate change is the greatest challenge we face and a true existential threat, demanding that we take bold and urgent measures to regulate our interaction with our environment, among other things by adopting technologies that reduce carbon emissions.


  
     826     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CAF_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

One of the biggest challenges we face as we seek to meet the needs of the planet collectively and individually is the preservation of our environment, which is threatened by various types of harmful emissions and climatic and atmospheric pollutants.
It is now clear that human activity is the main cause of climate change.
Global warming, due to an excessive production of greenhouse gases, has resulted in changes in the climate, which themselves cause floods during the rainy season, as well as water shortages.


  
     827     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CAN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is facing simultaneous and cascading crises, including climate change, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and threats to international peace and security, which serve to exacerbate inequalities, test our resilience and shine a bright light on the shortcomings of our systems and institutions.
Climate change, COVID-19 and the rise of authoritarianism and inequality are the challenges of our time.
There is no more perfect example of where multilateral solutions and political will are needed than in addressing the impact of climate change.
Like all of us in this Hall, Canada is not immune to the climate crisis.
Earlier this year, our west coast faced a record-setting heatwave, with temperatures in some places reaching more than 49°C.
When we attend the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in November, young people around the world will be looking to us to increase our ambition and strengthen global cooperation.
We are doing our part at home, including by putting a price on carbon, which will rise to $170 per tonne by 2030, and by increasing our emissions reduction targets.
We are also doing our part internationally, including by recently doubling our climate finance contribution to $5.3 billion over the next five years.
In response, I would say that challenges such as climate change remind us beyond any doubt that a multilateral response remains necessary.
We know that climate change, food insecurity and conflict will continue to exacerbate the challenge of forced migration and humanitarian need in the years to come.


  
     828     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CHE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As the adverse weather and fires of recent months around the world painfully reminded us, it is clear that human activity is disrupting the climate and is threatening the biodiversity of our planet.
Fourthly, let us take climate change seriously.
Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, shows that human activity can still determine the future course of climate.
I will personally be present in Glasgow at the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to reaffirm Switzerland’s commitment to the effective and consistent implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
At the national level, Switzerland is committed to reaching climate neutrality by 2050.
I call on all countries to aim for climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest and to submit ambitious climate targets for 2030.


  
     829     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CHL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

In addition, there is a serious climate crisis, a severe social and economic crisis and the undermining of democratic institutions.
But climate change has not been under quarantine.
Indeed, it is no longer a matter of climate change; we are already facing a climate crisis.
We are the last generation that can prevent the current climate crisis from becoming an environmental catastrophe.
Chile is a small country, contributing less than 0.25 per cent of total greenhouse gas emissions.
But we are determined to shoulder our responsibilities and do our part in this war against the climate crisis.
To achieve that, we have accelerated the decarbonization of our energy supply.
By 2025, we will have closed two thirds of our coal-fired power plants and by 2040, 100 per cent.
However, it is not enough to reduce our carbon footprint.
We must be more ambitious and ensure that our efforts to produce clean and renewable energy go beyond our borders and help other countries to meet their own decarbonization goals.
Nature therefore provides us with the potential to produce more than 70 times the energy that we need today, preventing the release of millions and millions of tons of carbon dioxide a year.
Preventing the climate crisis from becoming an environmental catastrophe is our generation’s task.
We are also proud of our contribution to the care of Antarctica, the largest freshwater reserve and the last pristine bastion of the planet, to the protection of the oceans and to the fight against climate change.
We are also proud to host more than 70 per cent of the world’s astronomical observation capacity and to be pioneers in the research and development of the potential of green hydrogen, a clean energy that will be essential to combat the climate crisis.


  
     830     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CHN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need to improve global environmental governance, actively respond to climate change and create a community of life for man and nature.
We need to accelerate transition to a green and low-carbon economy and achieve green recovery and development.
China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
China will step up support for other developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energy, and will not build new coal-fired power projects abroad.
We need to increase in-put in development, advance on a priority basis cooperation on poverty alleviation, food security, COVID-19 response and vaccines, development financing, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy and connectivity, among other areas, and accelerate implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, so as to build a global community of development with a shared future.


  
     831     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CIV_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a signatory to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, Cote d’Ivoire is committed to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions by 28 per cent by 2030 and increasing the share of renewable energies in its energy mix to 42 per cent.
In order to promote sustainable solutions to environmental challenges, my country has taken measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change in the areas of agriculture, integrated coastal management, renewable energy and the modernization and resilience of road transport, which is a major emitter of carbon dioxide.
Cote 
expresses the hope that the upcoming fifteenth session Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa, and the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will be held in Cote d’Ivoire and Scotland, respectively, will offer excellent opportunities to renew our common commitments and propose concrete and urgent actions to save our planet.


  
     832     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CMR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

“To secure ‘the future we want’, we cannot afford to continue shying away from the numerous significant commitments undertaken at recent conferences on the environment and on climate change, in particular, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing for sustainable development.
“Humankind is currently plagued by the following scourges: climate change, conflicts in many regions of the world, increasing terrorism, cybercrime, sea and ocean pollution, non-peaceful uses of outer space, social-media abuse, forest- ecosystem degradation, biodiversity loss, maritime piracy and the tragedy of migration.
“My country welcomes the forthcoming twenty- sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Stockholm+50 Conference.
It is imperative that our bilateral and multilateral partners uphold their commitments to providing developing countries with the financial and technological resources required to implement programmes for climate change mitigation and adaptation.


  
     833     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_COD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Democratic Republic of the Congo calls for stepping up the effective provision of resources by the IMF, without forgetting the imperative of alleviating the debt burden of African countries and honouring all promises made to Africa as compensation for the sacrifices it has made to safeguard humankind from global warming.
Concerning global warming in particular, we should recall that the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is less than six weeks away and that the year 2030 is only nine years away.
I am therefore calling on the international community in general, and the friends of Africa in particular, to support the Africa Adaptation Acceleration Program under the leadership of the Global Center on Adaptation and the African Development Bank, which intends to raise $25 billion in five years to help Africa withstand the shocks of climate change.
Overall, substantial progress has been made over the past two decades in terms of consolidating democratic processes, economic growth and poverty reduction, despite the unforgiving nature of international relations and the adverse consequences of climate change.


  
     834     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_COG_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Government of the Republic of the Congo welcomes the return of the United States to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which is a major instrument bringing together the international community in the fight against climate-change-related imbalances.
Within the framework of the implementation of resolution 75/17, on the protection of the global climate for present and future generations of humankind, the Republic of the Congo has made significant progress, placing special emphasis on adaptation.
Those studies are aimed at providing specific responses to the challenge of climate change and strengthening the capacities for adaptation and resilience of local populations given the rapidly increasing environmental changes that we have seen.
I reiterate here the appeal made by the Republic of the Congo to various development partners to invest significantly in sustainable development and in the effective management of the peat bog in the Congo basin, which, according to scientists, could be a storehouse for several billion tons of carbon.


  
     835     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_COL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are witnessing the increased effects of climate change, greater inequalities caused by economic downturns, and migratory crises triggered by those who are willing to risk their lives, fleeing dictatorships and abusive regimes, for a decent job or a plate of food.
All of the challenges and actions we are addressing today are also taking place amid the greatest threat faced by humankind, namely, the climate crisis.
We are a country that represents only 0.6 per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions, yet is one of those most threatened by the effects of climate change.
That is why we will be attending the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow with a commitment to reduce our greenhouse-gas emissions by 51 per cent by 2030.
We are also on course to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
I therefore propose to the international community that, for a certain period of time and with the support of the International Monetary Fund, a rule be established whereby all structural climate action expenditures and investments can be considered outside the traditional fiscal deficit measurement lines.
Such tools, as well as multilateral debt relief and debt forgiveness in the face of concrete climate action achievements, should be applied as soon as possible and without conditions.
Colombia is tackling the pandemic, addressing climate action and, at the same time, dealing with the worst migratory crisis on the planet due to the millions of Venezuelans fleeing the infamous narco-dictatorship.
In Colombia, young people have been hit hard by the pandemic, and today they are leading the major debates on climate action by proposing policies and joint action.
Colombia is moving forward on energy transition and climate action.
Colombia is made up of good, honourable and hard-working people, who are today represented at this global meeting and would like to say through me that it is time for action on climate change and brotherly migration.


  
     836     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_COM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is by integrating this reality that we will succeed in the work of this session of the Assembly and of other major international meetings, in particular the next World Food Summit, the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the fifth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries.
As we tackle the work of this session, let us not forget that according to current studies and research, entire regions are expected to simply disappear, while others will be affected by the intensification of climate events such as floods, droughts, fires, coastal erosion and ocean acidification, the consequences of the harmful effects of the degradation of our environment.


  
     837     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CPV_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

More than just responding to what was asked of him, that is, to guide the responses to the commitments set out in the Declaration on the commemoration of the seventy- fifth anniversary of the United Nations (resolution 75/1), the Secretary-General, in Our Common Agenda, offered us his vision for the future of the world and the role of the United Nations — a future that depends on our collective choice between continuing on the path to destruction caused by the COVID-19 virus, climate change and the erosion of human rights, or resuming the ascent towards progress, inclusion, environmental sustainability and development, including by means of an effective United Nations system that gives meaning to multilateralism.
Cabo Verde has all the structural characteristics of a small island developing State, namely, small size and dispersion in islands, situated in large oceanic spaces and distant from major markets, which weakens our economic base and heightens our exposure to climate change and other environmental phenomena such as drought, in addition to reducing our resilience to natural phenomena and other external shocks.
Measures to support economic growth and competitiveness in those growth areas, support for climate adaptation and increased climate resilience, direct investment facilities and general and climate finance should be undertaken globally for the benefit of small island developing States and adjusted to each nation’s particularities.
As a crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic has destroyed lives, compromised health care, destroyed economies and social-protection systems, reduced opportunities in education and employment for youth, and increased poverty and inequality, further exposing us to the effects of climate change and weakening the most vulnerable.
However, the COVID-19 crisis is also part of a chain of other crises, such as climate change, geopolitical conflicts and criminal insecurity, and their interconnectedness results in increased division among those who have more and those who have less, both nationally and internationally, particularly in terms of access to vaccines for all and to financial conditions and the means to build back better.


  
     838     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CRI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We take note of the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
In the worst-case scenario, if action is not taken now and emissions continue to grow at their current rate, by the end of the century the temperature of the planet will increase by 4.4°C and, as a result, so will the force and frequency of extreme weather phenomena.
Ironically, the countries that produce the lowest levels of carbon emissions, such as the island States and my own region, Central America, are the areas most affected by the climate emergency.
The pandemic, the climate crisis, unemployment and limited levels of investment are putting extreme stress on the social and political stability of developing countries, as well as the stability of the entire planet, owing to global interconnectedness.
How will we explain to the next generation that, during the pandemic, as vaccines failed to reach everyone and we faced an unprecedented climate crisis, the world increased its spending on weapons?
The three United Nations Conventions — the Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on Biodiversity and the Convention to Combat Desertification — are but reflective of the singular reality of a planet that must stop global warming, safeguard life and ecosystems and protect and restore agricultural areas.
We must be ambitious with regard to the goals to be met at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26) to be held in 40 days.
We cannot let down our guard concerning our climate ambition on the way forward towards COP26, to be held in Glasgow, or our biodiversity ambition on the path towards the fifteenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Kunming.
Accordingly, in 2019 we launched our plan to decarbonize the economy by 2050.
Scientists agree that more of the planet must be protected and restored to safeguard it from the climate crisis and the accelerated loss of biodiversity.
That is why the High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People, led by France, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, as Ocean co-Chair, is a nature-based solution that seeks to protect 30 per cent of the planet’s marine and terrestrial ecosystems by 2030, in order to avoid exceeding global temperatures by 1.5°C and to promote the protection of the ocean.


  
     839     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CUB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We will never tire of repeating that the squandering of natural resources and the irrational capitalist patterns of production and consumption, which depredate the environment and cause the climate change that jeopardizes the existence of the human species should cease.
We likewise support their right to a just, special and differentiated treatment, which is indispensable to meet the challenges resulting from climate change, natural disasters, the unjust international financial system and the difficult conditions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     840     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CYP_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

How compliant are we in the implementation of what we have agreed with regard to the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change?
At the same time, we must all realize that we are at a defining moment for climate change.


  
     841     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_CZE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change constitute the centrepieces of our joint efforts.
With regard to global climate change action, the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow, will be crucial, and our nationally determined contributions need to be ambitious.
We also need all major emitters on board.
The impacts of climate change on peace and security are becoming
increasingly apparent.


  
     842     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_DEU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

What holds true for the existential threat posed by the pandemic is just as true for climate change.
After all, when it comes to climate change, it is also true that the gap between our ambitious goals and our concrete policies remains much too wide.
We have to leave them an open future in which climate and environmental protection, economic prosperity, a self- determined life in freedom and social cohesion are all possible simultaneously.


  
     843     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_DJI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

In that regard, allow me to highlight some of them:
•	42 per cent drop in foreign direct investment; 20 per cent contraction in
world trade
•	Quadrupling of the price of container transport
With regard to the environment, there has been a considerable decrease in global greenhouse gas emissions, which contributed to a slowdown in the deterioration of the ozone layer.
Now more than ever, given the multiple devastating effects of climate change, such as prolonged droughts, increased hurricanes, sea level rise, extreme temperatures, flooding and even locust invasion, to name a few, we have a compelling obligation to rethink our actions.
Although the Paris Agreement was a historic achievement, we must acknowledge that the efforts made have not lived up to the hopes, following COP21.
Because of their climate vulnerability, the international community must support developing countries so that they can benefit from technology transfer and expertise, as well as appropriate funding.


  
     844     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_DMA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, we are convening this 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, at a time when our Planet Earth is at its warmest and each and every member state is grappling with the impact of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic.
Climate Change
Mr. President, rising sea levels coupled with more frequent and extreme weather events, make the Caribbean one of the most vulnerable regions in the world.
Recent weather phenomena in the Commonwealth of Dominica suggest that the climate is indeed changing, with increases in temperature, changes in the seasons and erratic temperature variations.
Fellow Delegates, according to the World Bank study entitled: “Turn Down the Heat”, the number of severe hurricanes is projected to increase by 40 per cent, with double the intensity, as warming rises by 2°C and up to 80 per cent in case of a 4°C warming.
Distinguished Delegates, Dominica continues to call on the major polluters to take more aggressive actions to reduce global warming, as our planet will not be able to sustain life as we know it, if they continue to pursue their unsustainable systems of production and consumption unabated.
Dominica is working on becoming the world’s first climate resilient nation and we are committed to doing more than just adapt to the impact of climate change but these major polluters MUST take up their responsibilities to support Small island developing nations like ours, to achieve these goals.
We would like to thank our International partners who have helped to create the Climate Resilient Execution Agency of Dominica (CREAD), to coordinate donor- funded climate resilient projects, as we mainstream resilience across sectors.
Mr. President, recently, the Government of Dominica approved the Comprehensive National Resilience Development Strategy and the development of Dominica’s Climate Resilience and Recovery Plan (CRRP), which further underscores Government’s commitment towards disaster risk reduction, resilience building at all levels and the development of sound response and recovery mechanisms.
Dominica looks forward to the renewal of discussions at COP 26 in a few weeks times, where commitments made under the Paris agreement can be re visited and honoured, especially as it pertains to climate financing.
This is a matter of climate justice!
As Dominica and other SIDS are not responsible for the warming of our planet but we are disproportionately impacted by the effect of climate change.
Renewable Energy
Mr. President, one of the major contributors to climate change is the consumption of fossil fuel for the production of electricity and for transportation and the importation of fossil fuel, has over the years, had the greatest impact on the economic vulnerability of many Small Island Developing States.
The transition of the energy sector away from fossil fuel, therefore, is central to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, building resilience to economic and climate related events and ultimately, pursuing a sustainable development pathway.
To date, our efforts to develop our country’s geothermal potential have been supported by several partners: the UK, World Bank, SIDS DOCK, Caribbean Development Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, the European Commission, the Government of New Zealand, the Clinton Climate Initiative and the United Arab Emirates., and we would like to thank them all.
The extreme pace of human advancement in the 21st century has demonstrated that we have the capacity and ingenuity to combat climate change, and to develop means of production and consumption to sustain humanity, while at the same time protecting our planet.
Mr. President, history will record both our actions and inactions that can result in educating and saving our generation from this pandemic, and from global warming and climate change, thus ensuring a safer planet for our children, and future generations.


  
     845     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_DNK_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

* * *
International solidarity also has the power to prevent a climate disaster.
The latest IPCC report makes it clear that we are standing at a global crossroad.
We need to keep the Paris Agreement goal alive.
Limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5°C.
Climate change hits the world’s poorest and weakest communities hardest.
And massively scale up Danish grant-based climate finance to at least $500 million a year by 2023.
At the same time, we are fully focused on reducing our own emissions.
Denmark will be climate-neutral no later than 2050.
And by 2030, we have committed to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by 70 per cent.
Thirty years on from Copenhagen and on the road to 2030.


  
     846     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_DOM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, in the face of pandemics, the climate emergency, the technological revolution and the need to articulate a new paradigm for the welfare state, it is vital to strengthen unity and cooperation among all nations.
First, the Dominican Republic, as a small island developing State, is one of the countries that produces the least greenhouse- gas emissions but suffers the most from the effects of climate change.
It is also just and necessary that the enormous investments required to restore our natural resources affected by global warming should be paid for by the countries that have generated the most carbon dioxide.


  
     847     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_DZA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

With respect to environmental issues, Algeria remains concerned about the worsening of problems in various relevant environmental contexts, in particular the phenomenon of desertification, which has affected my country for decades, the continuing escalation of climate disasters, such as floods, droughts and scarce rainfall and their negative economic and social repercussions, as well as other damage caused by environmental disasters and climate change, in particular the alarming levels of biodiversity loss.
Despite its limited capabilities, Algeria has spared no effort in tackling the various challenges posed by those climate and natural developments.


  
     848     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ECU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

With respect to climate change, we are the first Latin American country and the fourth in the world to place our ecological transition under the responsibility of a Ministry.
Our interest in implementing policies to cut carbon emissions, as well as in any mechanism that addresses accelerated environmental degradation, is quite natural.
We continue to have great expectations of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will take place in Glasgow in October.


  
     849     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_EGY_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is especially true of climate change, whose detrimental effects are now plain for all to see.
We have recently seen many severe weather phenomena worldwide, from floods and torrential rains to un-precedented rises in temperature and forest fires.
Guided by our shared moral responsibility to future generations, in line with the objectives of our national vision and our international obligations, Egypt is making every effort to promote coordination on climate issues.
It seeks to avoid reaching the point of no return, at which climate change would have run its course and become irreversible.
Egypt has played a proactive role in climate change negotiations and looks forward to hosting the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2022.


  
     850     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ERI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our global community is facing triple challenges of enormous gravity; i) the COVID-19 pandemic whose deadly virulence continues unabated in many places; ii) spiralling climate change that threatens our very survival; and, iii) growing risks of dangerous international rivalry and commotion rooted on dynamic changes in the global balance of power.
Mr. President,
Whether meeting internationally agreed development goals, combating the growing threat of climate change, or responding to the range of threats to international peace and security, the enormity of today’s global challenges call for a stronger United Nations that is more representative, transparent and most importantly, effective.


  
     851     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ESP_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I can assure members that I will always remember the faces of those women, men and children — today’s victims of geopolitical strategies and conflicts mired in the past, of ignorance and contempt among nations, of the terror associated with fanaticism and extremism, of the absence of a strong State that supports a free society, of an unjust and unsustainable model of development and, lastly, of the climate and health emergencies that we are currently experiencing.
We also support the creation of a tool within the framework of the International Monetary Fund that would allow for the transfer of special drawing rights from the developed to the most vulnerable countries, regardless of their level of income, so that they can finance the necessary reforms that will ensure their sustainable recovery and allow them to combat and adapt to climate change and tackle poverty and inequality.
I have discussed overcoming the pandemic and managing the socioeconomic recovery — but clearly the climate emergency is the overarching crisis of our time.
One of the main challenges we will face at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-26), to be held in Glasgow, will be to ramp up ambition in terms of climate finance, in particular in the area of adaptation.
We must meet our commitments under the Paris Agreement and significantly increase future commitments.
Spain will contribute to achieving that goal by allocating €30 million to the Adaptation Fund in 2022 and will work to make COP-26 a success.
Spain has made the climate crisis a top priority for Government action — of the projected investments in European funds and in our national recovery, transformation and resilience plan, 40 per cent will be earmarked for the ecological transition.
We also recently adopted an ambitious climate change and energy transition law in the Spanish National Parliament.
For example, Spain’s integrated national energy and climate plan foresees that our green transition policies will create 250,000 to 350,000 jobs per year.
Our response to the three crises we face — the pandemic, the economic crisis and the climate emergency — will have a decisive impact on the international political scenario in the short and medium terms.


  
     852     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_EST_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I feel encouraged about the fight against climate change, which is at least as dangerous to the human race as a pandemic.
We will overcome climate change someday.
The day will come when humankind will be able to look back and find that we have reduced the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
The unexpected storms, the heatwaves in places with otherwise moderate temperatures and the snow in regions that are not used to its cold bite will continue even when we have stopped the trend of rising emissions.
If we can now stop climate change by following the attitudes of more supportive Governments towards the weak in societies and finding the same fervour that we all had in the quest for vaccines, future generations will recognize this decade of this century as the great recovery.


  
     853     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ETH_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global warming is the most alarming driver of poverty.
The impacts of climate change are destroying arable land and biodiversity, thereby disrupting our food system.
Hopefully, the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will pave the way for climate financing and support for programmes such as the Green Belt and Green Legacy afforestation initiatives, which are restoring a long-lost ecosystem.


  
     854     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_EU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

A fairer and safer world is also a world free of the climate threat.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change was a major step to that end, and the European Union played a major role.
Unlike others, we stood firm to defend it and, two years ago, the 27 Heads of State and Government of the European Union led the way by committing to climate neutrality by 2050.
We believe we should move towards carbon-pricing.
The EU began such an initiative with the Emissions Trading System because we believe that approach stimulates innovation, produces results and encourages a circular economy.
Finally, we all know that not everyone is equal in the race against the clock for global warming.
Despite the 2009 and 2010 pledges to mobilize $100 billion annually to finance the international fight against global warming, few have kept their word.
We firmly defend our values, but we are also ready to engage in dialogue to address global challenges such as climate, biodiversity and the fight against pandemics.


  
     855     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_FIN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The same will increasingly be true of both climate change and emerging technologies.
With the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Climate Agreement and the Convention on Biological Diversity, we already have plenty of documents and road maps to rely on.
In addition, we now know that climate change is proceeding even faster than was previously thought.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, we are already likely to reach the 1.5°C temperature rise in the early 2030s.
It is not an exaggeration to say that we are facing a global climate emergency.
The national determined contributions that we, the signatories of the Paris Agreement, have made so far may still put us on track for a 2.7°C temperature rise by the end of this century.
The consequences for the planet and for future generations would be catastrophic.
We have to use the upcoming twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to put ourselves on a sustainable course.
Well ahead of the meeting in Glasgow, we need more ambitious emission-reduction plans, and we must speed up the ongoing transition away from fossil fuels.
To succeed, we need adequate climate financing.
As a global community, we have to increase the quality, quantity and accessibility of climate finance, especially to the least developed countries and the small island developing countries.
We must also encourage Finance Ministers to take climate change into account in all of their decision-making.
The Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action, co-chaired by Finland and Indonesia, already has more than 60 members.
It currently focuses on green recovery, carbon pricing and biodiversity.


  
     856     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_FJI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Your re-election was a win for the planet, for the climate, and for the smallest states among us.
We want sustainable economic growth that is powered by clean energy and protected from the impacts of climate change.
This year alone, climate-driven floods, heatwaves, fires, and cyclones have killed hundreds and inflicted unsustainable economic damage.
We must find new frontiers of co-operation if we stand any chance of averting future pandemics — or staving off the worst of climate change.
Our Climate Challenge
Despite all the talk we hear of saving the planet, the world’s collective commitments are paltry.
Akin to spitting into the strengthening winds of climate- fuelled super-storms.
The climate is on track for 2.7°C of global warming, which would ensure the loss of entire low-lying nations in the Pacific and huge chunks of global coastlines.
It spells climate-driven conflict, mass migration, and the collapse of food systems and ecosystems.
It is systematically relocating communities from the rising seas.
And we are doing everything within our means to reduce our emissions.
We have submitted an NDC that commits Fiji to net-zero emissions and harnesses nature to lead that transition — commitments that will soon become law through a comprehensive Climate Change Bill.
In recognition of the ocean-climate nexus — Fiji hopes to secure a blue bond next year in support of a sustainable blue Fijian economy.
But Fiji can’t halt climate change by itself.
Today, SIDS are able to access less than 2 per cent of the available climate finance.
We need global greenhouse gas emissions to fall dramatically and quickly.
At COP26, we expect the oceans pathway will be locked into the UNFCCC processes.
Fiji seeks a decision in “one slash COP26” reflecting this change.
This demands drastic emissions cuts by 2030 that put large nations on a path towards net-zero emissions before 2050.
Leaders who cannot summon the courage to unveil these commitments and policy packages at COP26 should not bother booking a flight to Glasgow.
We are demanding net-zero emissions and accepting zero excuses.
And, Excellencies, at COP26, the global north must finally deliver on $100 Billion per year in climate finance and agree to a pathway to increase financing commitments to at least $750 Billion per year from 2025 forward.
If we can spend trillions on missiles, drones, and nuclear submarines, we can fund climate action.
It is criminal that vulnerable Pacific Small Island Developing States can access a mere .05 per cent of the climate finance currently available to protect ourselves from an existential crisis we did not cause.
Mr. President, these are the challenges we face, at this UNGA and at COP26.


  
     857     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_FRA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

France is ready to transfer 20 per cent of its SDR allocation to African economies to strengthen the resilience of societies and support the transition to a sustainable development model and meet our objectives for the climate and the environment.
Without succumbing to fatalism, because the IPCC experts have told us that if we swiftly lower our emissions, we can still limit warming to 2°C or even 1.5°C.
However when we act it must be with no half measures, because — as the Secretary-General has firmly stated — we are now on a catastrophic pathway due to insufficient commitments that are leading us to global heating of 2.7°C for which we will all, without exception, pay a heavy price.
COP26 which will begin on 1 November will therefore be a moment of truth.
We must rally around the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 before it is too late.
Here again, France will show its solidarity by providing €6 billion a year and devoting more than a third of its financing to climate adaptation.
This fight for the climate must go hand in hand with the fight for biodiversity.
We must also put climate finance to work for biodiversity, as the connections between the two topics are now well recognized.
^During this time of global economy recovery, we must lastly ensure that our trade practices are fully compatible with our international solidarity efforts and our climate and environmental objectives.
By providing new levers in accordance with WTO law, such as the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism that we wish to establish in Europe to fight carbon leakage, in the same way that we wish to fight imported deforestation and violations of social rights across our value chains.


  
     858     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_FSM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Your country, the Republic of the Maldives, has been instrumental and effective in leading the world community, particularly on issues relating to the environment and Climate Change, to find common ground.
I note with genuine enthusiasm that both of our countries have undertaken partnerships with the Blue Prosperity Coalition to protect at least 30 per cent of our ocean, and that both of our countries, like small island developing states across the World, are committed to building back better through tackling Climate Change.
Let us all support the targets for achieving global health security, and let us all elevate global ambition to making shared existential security threats, whether they are the COVID-19 Pandemic or Climate Change, a shared responsibility, that we work together in addressing as nations united for a common purpose.
Mr. President,
Regrettably, the chilling confirmation from the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its recent report is a stark reminder that dark days are ahead if no serious and urgent action is taken to deal with the Climate Change crisis.
Micronesia remains committed to doing its part in addressing the Climate Change crisis so we can build back better.
With recent legislation, we have banned the importation of most forms of plastic, and we are beginning to shift from relying on fossil fuels to renewable energies like solar.
The positive step undertaken by the United
States to rejoining the Paris Agreement and sponsoring a Climate Summit is all very encouraging, because the World needs the United States if we are to solve the Climate Change crisis, on the premise that the World needs every country to work together.
The secret to the threat of Climate Change is the same as the secret to the threat of the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Mr. President,
While we took encouragement from the international response to the Paris Agreement, the Climate Crisis should also motivate us to ratify and integrate the Kigali Amendment into our national policies to ensure the avoidance of life- threatening damage to our planet.
That is why I am urging countries which are major contributors to carbon emissions to ratify the Kigali Amendment, and to phase down the production and consumption of HFCs.
Mr. President,
The Federated States of Micronesia accepts the responsibility to continue to speak out, along with similarly committed States, on how the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (“UNCLOS”) applies to maritime zones in situations involving Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise.
Last month, the Pacific Islands countries endorsed a landmark Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the Face of Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise, which has been affirmed by both the Pacific Islands Forum and the Micronesian Presidents’ Summit.
As recognized by the Declaration, the threat of Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise is, and I quote, a “defining issue that imperils the livelihoods and wellbeing of our peoples and undermines the realization of a peaceful, secure, and sustainable future for our region” of the Pacific.
Recent reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change underscore that global sea-level rise associated with Climate Change is likely to be as high as one meter by the end of this century, with the Western Pacific having already experienced three times more sea-level rise than the current global mean.
In light of these circumstances, and in acknowledgement of the potential legal implications of sea-level rise on maritime zones, such as those of Micronesia, the Declaration proclaims, among other things, that our islands’ “maritime zones, once established in accordance with the UNCLOS and notified to the Secretary-General of the United Nations in accordance with UNCLOS, and the rights and entitlements that flow from them, shall continue to apply, notwithstanding any physical changes connected to Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise.”
It will be deeply unjust and inequitable if a small island developing State like Micronesia, being specially affected by Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise, despite being among the least responsible for the phenomenon, has to surrender any of its maritime rights and entitlements because of such sea-level rise, including its rights and entitlements to rich fishery resources in our Exclusive Economic Zone.
We have relied on the traditional knowledge in conserving our land and seas, and will continue to look to it for best practices in preserving the resources that come from the Ocean, and also utilize it to fight Climate Change.
Micronesia chooses to take responsibility for solving the Climate Change crisis and for ending the COVID-19 Pandemic.


  
     859     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GAB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Another issue that calls for our solidarity and is a priority for us today is the climate security of our planet.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26), which will be held in Glasgow, Scotland, in November, should therefore be an unprecedented moment of action.
I recall that the objective is to halve greenhouse gas emissions and preserve biodiversity while promoting investment in green infrastructure in developing countries to stimulate and decarbonize their economies.
Indeed, the consequences of climate change, notably sea-level rise, earthquakes and recurrent forest fires, are putting our societies and communities under pressure and should make us aware of the urgency of acting collectively.
States and communities should now adapt to face the challenges of climate change.
Therefore, without prejudice to mitigation, the international political agenda needs a significant increase in resources for adaptation to climate change.
I remain convinced that no single Government can take on climate change adaptation alone.
The link between climate change and insecurity also appears obvious to me.
As members are aware, Gabon has always been committed to peace and climate security.
I am thinking in particular of the transfer of so-called clean technologies and the improvement of people’s access to renewable energies in order to accelerate their transition into decarbonized, environmentally friendly industries.
Achieving those commitments is crucial to support the efforts of countries like Gabon, which has substantially mobilized its domestic resources in the implementation of climate change adaptation and biodiversity conservation projects.
In its investment for climate security, Gabon saves the equivalent of 140 million tons of carbon each year, while emitting only 35 million tons.
Therefore, with a difference of more than 100 million tons of carbon each year, Gabon’s action is crucial for the future of all humankind.


  
     860     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GBR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is why the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26) — the summit soon to take place at Glasgow — is the turning point for humankind.
We must limit the rise in temperatures, whose appalling effects were visible
even this summer, to 1°5C.
Two days ago, here in New York, we had a meeting in which we heard from the leaders of the nations most threatened by climate change — Marshall Islands, the Maldives, Bangladesh and many others — and they spoke of the hurricanes, the flooding and the fires caused by the extreme meteorological conditions the world is already seeing.
The tragedy is that because of our past inaction, there are further rises in temperatures that are already baked in — and baked is the word.
If we keep on the current track, then the temperatures will go up by 2°7F or more by the end of the century.
We are not talking about stopping the rise in temperatures We cannot do that; it is too late to stop the rise in temperatures.
But to restrain that rise to 1°5 C, we need to pledge collectively to achieve carbon neutrality — net-zero — by the middle of the century, and that will be an amazing moment if we can do it, because it will mean that for the first time in centuries, humankind is no longer adding to the budget of carbon in the atmosphere, no longer thickening that invisible quilt that is warming the planet.
We can go further, and if we are going to stave off these hikes, these rises in temperature, we must go further, and we must go far faster.
It is through our Promethean faith in new green technology that we are cutting emissions in the United Kingdom.
I know that we are ambitious in our scheme — the developing world ending the use of coal power by 2040 and the developed world doing so
by 2030.
Again, we call on the world to come together to drive this market in a low-carbon way, so that by 2040 there are only zero-emission vehicles on sale anywhere in the world.
My point is that we can make these massive cuts in pollution and emissions while driving jobs and growth.
We have cut our greenhouse-gas emissions by 44 per cent in the last 30 years while expanding our gross domestic product by 78 per cent, and we will now go further by implementing one of the biggest nationally determined contributions (NDCs) currently being offered.
The NDC is the pledge that, in the run up to COP 26, every country has been asked to make in terms of cutting carbon.
We are helping people to reduce their own households’ carbon-dioxide emissions by retrofitting their homes and going for new sources of heating.
We are working towards building a “jet-zero”— the first large, guilt-free, carbon-free passenger plane.
We also recognize that this is not just about using technical fixes in technology to cut carbon dioxide; we also need to work together around the world to restore the balance between humankind and nature — a balance that has obviously been proved so hopelessly out of whack by the emergence of a zoonotic pandemic, for instance.
We should achieve that goal by making a pledge to do so at COP 26 in just 40 days’ time.
That is why we in the United Kingdom are committed to beautifying the landscape and strengthening our protection against flooding by planting millions more trees — beautiful trees that stop soil erosion, provide habitats for insects, birds and mammals, and which of course help to fix carbon in the atmosphere.
Although we were in fact of course doing something rather wonderful in one sense — we were setting in train a new era of technology that was itself to lead to a massive global reduction in poverty, emancipating billions of people around the world — the industrial revolution was a good thing fundamentally — but we were also unwittingly beginning to quilt the great tea cozy of carbon dioxide around the world.
That is why two years ago, when I last came to the General Assembly, I committed the United Kingdom to providing £11.6 billion to help the rest of the world to tackle climate change.
My point is that these investments will not only help the countries of the world to tackle climate change, but they will also produce millions — literally millions in the decades to come — millions and millions of high-wage, high-skilled jobs.
Every day, green startups are producing new ideas from feeding seaweed to cows to restrain their traditional signs of digestive approval to using artificial intelligence and robotics to enhance food production, capture carbon dioxide and put it into brownies and so on.
To get back to my metaphor of adolescence, I hope that COP 26 will be a sixteenth birthday party for humankind — not a miserable party, but a party in which we choose to grow up, recognize the scale of the challenge that we face and do what posterity demands that we must.


  
     861     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GHA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The proceeds of channelled SDRs should fund vaccine acquisition and manufacturing, climate and green investments and a pan-African stability mechanism, like the European Stability Mechanism, designed to safeguard financial stability on the continent.
Fourthly, we in Africa are as committed as any to the fight against climate change.
We believe, however, that the fight can be better advanced if we can maintain a crucial balance between economic, political and environmental imperatives — positions that we will be articulating in Glasgow at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will form part of the new global compact.


  
     862     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GIN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Beyond the COVID-19 pandemic, poverty in all its forms and dimensions, hunger, climate change, terrorism, irregular migration, violent extremism, intolerance, racism, conflict of all kinds and inequality continue to plague the world.
Never before has our planet been so threatened with the corollaries of deforestation, greenhouse-gas emissions and climate change.
As we prepare to join the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, scheduled to take place in Glasgow, Scotland, my country, which has held the presidency of the Group of 77 and China since 18 January, is concerned about the delay in climate financing, as well as the failure of major polluters to meet their commitments.
We will not cease to insist on the need for the developed countries to support the developing countries, which are the main victims of global warming.


  
     863     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GMB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenge of addressing the root causes of conflict and climate change require greater global solidarity and United Nations leadership.
We are aware of the geopolitical competition for influence by regional and global Powers, but as small States Members of the United Nations we are more interested in seeing nations increase their cooperation in fighting poverty, climate change, conflicts and global insecurity.
We must use the lessons of this pandemic to engender critical reforms of our institutions so that we are better prepared for the next pandemic, climate event or humanitarian catastrophe.


  
     864     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GNB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The problem of climate change is an irrefutable reality that has greater and more frequent impacts on
the small island developing States, including Guinea- Bissau.
Therefore, my country has developed climate change adaptation plans with both medium-term and long-term perspectives, and we have extended our national land and marine protected areas to cover more than 26 per cent of the national territory.


  
     865     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GRC_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we stand here today — less than six weeks from the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow — we continue to talk about the other great issue of our time, climate change, with a renewed sense of urgency.
Let me be clear: this is no longer about climate change; this is about addressing an acute climate crisis.
Our collective response to the climate crisis must do the same.
Scientists tell us that the Mediterranean ecosystem, which is home to some of the world’s most ancient civilizations, is particularly susceptible to the consequences of rising temperatures.
I am very pleased that last Friday, together with Greece, the leaders of eight other Mediterranean countries made the climate crisis the focal point of the eighth Summit of the Southern Countries of the European Union, held in Athens.
The Athens Declaration, adopted by Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, Croatia, Cyprus, Malta, Slovenia and Greece, focuses on key areas of the climate crisis that are of particular relevance to the Mediterranean, including biodiversity, forest management, the marine environment and civil protection, prevention and preparedness.
My country’s commitment to addressing the climate crisis is unwavering and transcends all aspects of public policy.
And Greece is leading a global initiative that aims to accelerate action to protect its cultural and natural heritage from the impacts of climate change.
They include the climate crisis, which affects both our countries equally, as well as the threat posed by illegal migration, in which Turkey has an important role to play in cooperating with us to eradicate the networks of illegal smugglers that prey on the desperation of vulnerable people.


  
     866     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GRD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I applaud his tireless efforts and commitment in addressing the growing global challenges, including the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and the climate-change crisis, as we collectively pursue sustainable solutions.
Small and vulnerable to natural disasters and the effects of climate change, we continue to call for advocacy where the international financial institutions are concerned to allow us to effectively face the development challenges posed by the pandemic and regain access to concessional financing.
CARICOM member States, including Grenada, have reaffirmed our commitment to tackling the phenomenon that is climate change.
In order to respond to those impacts and increasing threats, Grenada is moving quickly to implement climate-smart agriculture as one of our climate change adaptation strategies for reducing impacts.
We therefore have an urgent need to access additional resources to guarantee the survival of our agricultural sector through climate-smart practices.
We have to grapple not only with climate change but also with ensuring the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources.
We cannot discuss climate change in isolation from health.
Our planetary health and climate change require an integrated policy and, among other things, cooperation, leadership, governance and political will, as well as the sharing of resources and expertise to find better and more urgent solutions.


  
     867     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GTM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Furthermore, we are witnessing the onslaught of climate change around the world, which has exacerbated weather phenomena whose disastrous effects have resulted in the loss of life and extensive damage to agriculture and infrastructure.
Guatemala is recognized as one of the countries worldwide with the highest risk of and vulnerability to climatic events.
This will allow the reduction of dependence on international prices, which tangibly supports Sustainable Development Goal 7, on affordable and non-polluting energy.
This also contributes to mitigating climate change through the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions.
Guatemala has been hit hard by the effects of climate change.
Faced with this harsh reality, as President pro tempore of the Central American Integration System, I come to ask the members of the General Assembly to recognize Central America as a region highly vulnerable to the impact of loss and damage resulting from natural disasters, to acknowledge the need for agile, quality climate financing, and to grant access to parametric insurance that will help us to rebuild infrastructure that we are forced to reconstruct year after year.
It is a call for understanding and solidarity from the industrialized countries, which are largely responsible for climate change, the consequences of which have a negative impact on the Central American region, even though it emits only 0.35 percent of world’s greenhouse gases.
In contrast, our region contributes to the absorption of carbon emissions thanks to the capacity of our forests.
The disastrous effects of climate change can be mitigated if the collaboration and contributions of the developed countries could be counted upon.
Rest assured that we will make this vulnerability visible with concrete actions at the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     868     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_GUY_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

And looming large behind it is climate change, growing every day in its capacity to inflict even greater destruction and ruination than the coronavirus.
We hold out similar hope that the world’s worst emitters of the greenhouse gases that are threatening the welfare of all humankind will also come to the realization that in the end it will profit them little to emerge king over a world of dust.
The promises of the twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 21) in Paris have not been delivered.
If emissions follow the trajectory set by current national commitments, we have a less than a 5 per cent chance of keeping temperatures well below 2°C relative to pre-industrial levels, and a less than 1 per cent chance of reaching the 1.5°C target set in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
It forecasts that cascading climate impacts can be expected to kill far more people than COVID-19 — from hunger, intense heat, flooding and more pandemics caused by increases in pests and diseases.
Small island States and continental countries with low-lying coastlines such as Guyana would be the first to feel the full brunt of the impending disaster.
Yet our countries are among the lowest producers of greenhouse-gas emissions, contributing the least to the harmful and destructive effects of climate change.
The burden of reducing emissions is not being borne equitably.
Small island developing and low- lying coastal States are punching above their weight in response to the global climate threats.
Guyana is a net carbon sink.
Our forests absorb far more carbon than is produced from human activity.
We have continued to contribute meaningfully to reducing global environment missions and decarbonizing the world’s economy, even though our country is now an oil and gas producer.
Apart from containing the carbon-dioxide emissions connected to the industry, we continue to pursue a path of developing energy from sustainable sources.
We must devise innovative and creative ways by which the world should act to avert the catastrophe that climate change so plainly portends.
The twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), to be held in Glasgow in a few weeks’ time, is the right and timely place to start.
The worst emitters must make binding commitments in Glasgow to end their profligacy.
COP 26 — not COP 21 — will become the defining moment at which the future or fate of humankind is sealed.


  
     869     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_HND_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Since 2014 we have brought relevant issues before the General Assembly, including the severe impact of climate change on our countries, low international coffee prices, the role of organized crime and criminal groups as destabilizers of democratic Governments and the injustice that we have seen in the distribution of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) vaccines.
While 50 per cent of our territory is forest and 30 per cent falls into the category of protected nature reserves, we are severely affected by climate change.
In Honduras, we have developed a plan for a protective system against climate change consisting of multipurpose dams that collect water during heavy rains.
However, we are not seeing green climate funds being provided as they should.
At the recent summit of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States in Mexico, I proposed the creation of a climate change forecasting centre.


  
     870     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_HRV_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As our best scientific minds tell us, we can no longer afford to ignore how climate change is making natural hazards worse.
That includes taking action on climate change; our commitment to solidarity in times of crises; protecting human rights and upholding humanitarian law; promoting education and the empowerment of women; peaceful conflict resolution; fighting organized crime and corruption; countering terrorism; and dealing with disruptive technologies.
Ahead of the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow in November, it is vital that we stay on track and promote the continuous implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Croatia is actively setting up a legislative and strategic framework, which is a prerequisite for coordinated action on climate change.
Our commitment to reaching climate neutrality is visible through several key strategic achievements, namely our national development strategy for 2030; our low-carbon development strategy for 2030 with a view to 2050; and our five-year action plan for the implementation of a low-carbon development strategy.
In their own way, both are destructive and contrary to the spirit of its constitutional framework, stemming from the Dayton-Paris Accords.
The Dayton-Paris Accords are not without their faults, which undoubtedly will need to be addressed.


  
     871     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_HTI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must find relevant and adequate responses to new threats facing our world, such as the rise of international terrorism, mass atrocities, cross-border crime and other challenges, such as extreme poverty and climate change.
The phenomenon of climate change is a major concern for all countries of the world.
Global warming, severe weather conditions with alternating drought and flooding that affect agricultural and food production, and sea level rise have dire global consequences.
It is imperative that we take the right measures to slow down the rate of temperature rise on the Earth’s surface.
I encourage all States to implement the ambitious measures adopted in Paris to avoid a climate catastrophe that could jeopardize humankind’s very existence.
We need to rebuild better and more resiliency to better withstand climate threats and natural disasters in general.


  
     872     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_IDN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

How to sustain the planet for future generations?
Third, Indonesia’s commitment toward climate resilience, low carbon development and green technology is firm and clear.
Indonesia is aware of our strategic place on climate change.


  
     873     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_IND_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am sure that everyone here is also proud of the efforts made by India on climate change as compared to those made by large developed nations.
We have heard such questions raised in relation to the climate crisis as well as in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     874     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_IRL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

They have sounded for conflict; they have sounded for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic; they have sounded for climate.
Today, the climate crisis threatens our very existence on this shared and endangered planet.
It has put into stark relief the simple and regrettable
fact that we have not made sufficient progress in reducing poverty, increasing access to quality health care and education or combating the climate crisis.
Yesterday, I had the privilege of presiding over a Council debate on climate and security (see S/PV.8864).
As we heard from the Secretary-General on Tuesday (see A/76/PV.3), we can no longer deny the reality that climate change is the single greatest challenge facing our generation.
We must deliver on the Paris Agreement commitments, and we will shortly have important discussions at the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26).
But we can see the adverse effects of climate change already exacerbating conflict and insecurity, compounding other drivers of conflict such as poverty, inequality and human rights violations.
As co-Chair of the Informal Expert Group on Climate and Security, along with the Niger, Ireland has worked throughout the year with our fellow Council members to better understand those links and inform the Council about the steps we can take to address climate-related security risks.
For that reason, in the coming days, Ireland will convene a discussion on a Security Council thematic draft resolution on climate and security.
At COP 26, we must all, North and South of this vulnerable planet, muster the courage to take bold and ambitious action.
We need to keep global warming to as close to 1.5° C as possible.
For its part, Ireland will reduce its emissions by 51 per cent by 2030 compared to 2018 levels.


  
     875     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_IRQ_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We meet here today as we continue to face the health challenges created by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, as well as those of violence, terrorism, sustainable development and climate change.
Our planet is facing an existential danger from extreme climate change, which is threatening future generations.
While our political views may differ, we must remain united in facing climate change, which is a danger that threatens us all.
Iraq is experiencing difficult climate conditions.
Desertification and scarce water resources have put us in fifth place among the
countries most weakened by climate change, according to the sixth Global Environmental Outlook’s regional assessment for West Asia.
Iraq has acceded to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we are working on a strategy aimed at preserving the environment and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
We have drafted a document on national contributions to guide our economic transformation and promote the concept of a green economy in order to attract new investment to Iraq and ensure greater participation by the private sector in addressing climate change.
No country has been spared or excluded by the climate crisis, and we cannot reduce or adapt to its disastrous and harmful effects through individual measures.
No country that believes its measures can protect it from the risks of climate change will succeed if similar measures are not taken by its neighbours, its region and the whole world.
We underscore the need to create a new organization based on cooperation and the economic links among the countries of the region with the participation of the international community — an organization that is able to respond to shared challenges, whether they are those of terrorism, extremism, unstable economic conditions, an inability to provide jobs for ever-growing numbers of young people, or the repercussions of climate change.


  
     876     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ISL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

And the threat of climate change is no longer a distant phenomenon: it is here, and it is intensifying.
Mr. President,
While the consequences of the pandemic have been disastrous for our world, the effects of climate change are bound to be even worse.
For our part, Iceland’s ambition is to go beyond the Paris commitments.
This includes a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by more than half by 2030, complete carbon neutrality by 2040 and becoming fossil-fuel free by 2050.
Capturing and binding carbon is also an important pillar of our efforts, where we use both tried and tested nature-based solutions and innovative technologies.
Iceland is home to the world’s largest plant that extracts carbon dioxide directly from the air and turns it into rock through the so-called Carbfix method.
This technology has been developed out of the geothermal energy industry and will be applicable in many corners of the world to capture and store CO2 as solid-state rock.
High-income countries must support lower income ones to advance their climate ambitions too.
I am pleased to share that Iceland’s contribution to international climate finance has more than doubled from 2018.
But Iceland’s main contribution in the fight against climate change will continue to be our knowledge and experience in the use of green energy solutions.
Climate change, mismanagement, and pollution are leading to food insecurities, an alarming fall in biodiversity, and depletion of natural resources.
Nature is firmly on our agenda in the coming months, including at the COP meetings on climate change, biodiversity, and desertification, as well as the UN Ocean Conference.
Mr. President,
The complexity of modern conflicts and crises continues to grow with the marriage of emerging factors, such as climate change, cyber threats and disinformation, and the old foes of authoritarianism and tyranny.
The Council needs to act with greater foresight based on a broader view of security, and we welcome its recent deliberations on cyber security, climate security and the pandemic.


  
     877     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ITA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change and the protection of biodiversity.
The other emergency that we have placed at the core of our G20 Presidency agenda is climate change.
The latest UN IPCC report shows that, without immediate, rapid and large- scale reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, we will fail to limit global warming to below 1,5 degrees above preindustrial levels.
The number of climate-related natural disasters has increased fivefold since the 1960s.
Estimates from the World Health Organization show that climate change already causes 150,000 deaths per year, which could become 250,000 between 2030 and 2050.
As Presidency of the G20 and COP26 co-chair together with the United Kingdom, Italy intends to reach ambitious goals on the three pillars of the Paris agreement: mitigation, adaptation and finance.
Over the next decade, we must reduce as much as possible CO2 emissions produced by fossil fuels and other greenhouse gases, including methane.
And we must work to adapt our infrastructure to climate shocks, that have become increasingly frequent and violent.
Italy strongly supports the leading role of the European Union in the ecological transition, and in particular its commitment to a 55 per cent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 and to net zero emissions by 2050.
However, the EU currently accounts for only 8 per cent of global emissions, while G20 countries are responsible for 75 per cent.
The fight against climate change requires multilateral engagement and pragmatic cooperation among all major global players — both rich and emerging economies.
We want to eliminate subsidies for fossil fuels and promote the use of renewable sources.
We hope that the “Roundtable on Climate” promoted last Monday by Secretary-General Guterres and Prime Minister Johnson will give further impetus to the negotiations that will take us to the G20 Summit in Rome and to the COP26 in Glasgow.
Next week, 400 young people from all over the world will meet in Milan to present their proposals for the fight against climate change.
The answer to the challenges we face — the pandemic, climate change and international crises — lies in effective multilateralism, based on inclusive and open dialogue.


  
     878     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_JAM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must take a fresh look at how we rebuild sustainably, attain the Sustainable Development Goals, and renew our focus on social justice and climate action.
Mr. President,
Climate change remains one of the defining global challenges of our era and of even greater concern for future generations.
Our ability to achieve sustainable development will be compromised if we do not find real solutions to the ongoing climate emergency.
The demand for climate adaptation is increasing, but so is the fear that it will be unmet.
A more worrisome truth is the IPCC’s finding that human influence on the Earth’s climate has already led to unprecedented and irreversible changes.
In their efforts to combat these changes, SIDS have been unable to access climate finance at the pace and scale necessary.
We have instead, been forced to spend significant funds on loss and damage, with limited financial support from large emitters.
COP26 must deliver significant progress on the priority issues of climate financing, loss and damage, adaptation and mitigation, as well as the development of effective climate change plans.
As the science and the research have shown, we must also see the oceans as playing a vital role as a climate mitigator.


  
     879     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_JOR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I do not need to elaborate upon what we all know; today’s most critical challenges are global in scope—the deadly pandemic, climate change, violent conflicts exploited by global extremists, destabilising economic fault-lines, a continuing, global refugee crisis.
My friends,
If humanity faced no other threats at all, we would still need to unite to face the most existential of our time — the global climate crisis.
But no country can combat climate change on its own.


  
     880     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_JPN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Many challenges confronting us, such as climate change, economic recovery and competition with authoritarianism, require our collective efforts.
Climate change is an imminent challenge that calls for the collective efforts of humanity as a whole to resolve.
At the same time, addressing climate change will be the driving force of dynamic growth and a necessity for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Japan aims to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 46 per cent in fiscal year 2030 from its fiscal year 2013 levels, setting an ambitious target which is aligned with the long-term goal of achieving net-zero by 2050.
Furthermore, Japan will continue strenuous efforts in its challenge to meet the lofty goal of cutting its emission by 50 per cent.
I would like to encourage other countries including major emitters to make further efforts as well.
In achieving global decarbonization, any developing country which genuinely needs assistance should not be left behind.
Japan will provide climate finance, both public and private, to developing countries including small island states, totalling approximately $60 billion over the next five years from 2021 to 2025.
With these efforts, Japan is resolved to take the lead in achieving global decarbonization and creating a green and sustainable society.


  
     881     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KAZ_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I will focus today first and foremost on the triple threat we face together: COVID-19 recovery; the Climate crisis; and the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Carbon dioxide levels are at record highs.
As a large landlocked country, Kazakhstan’s climate is warming faster than the global average and threatening our population and economy.
The median annual temperature has increased 2°C in the last 75 years with serious droughts now striking twice every five years.
In response, Kazakhstan intends to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
We are launching a national 2050 low carbon development strategy next month to reduce GDP energy intensity by 50 per cent from 2008 levels.
Access to green financing and green technologies will be critical to this transition, and we look to the upcoming COP26 conference in Glasgow for clear commitment on these issues.
Without ambitious green financing, ambitious climate action is empty.
We also give great importance to the COP15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity in Kunming in October 2021.


  
     882     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KEN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Second, we need to provide tangible climate financial support to developing countries and ensure that a significant portion of “green manufacturing” is located in developing countries;
(iii)	Third, we must align our conflict resolution tools to the strategic shift in threats to regional and international peace and security;
(iv)
Excellencies, many leaders have noted, on previous occasions, the need to deliver concurrently economic recovery linked to climate change action.
As COP-26 approaches, we should aim to make clear commitments that contribute to developing country investments in green manufacturing and the infrastructure it requires.
A “Green Building Back Better” that delivers jobs and shared prosperity, will win the support of the young generation and intensify the drive towards climate change action.
We have mounted a strong climate change response.
We have submitted an updated National Determined Contribution (NDC) plan that aims to lower greenhouse gas emissions by 32 per cent by 2030.
Kenya also has a “Green Economy Strategy and Implementation Plan (2016- 2030)”, which will enable us to achieve higher economic growth and support a low- carbon development path.
Kenya has also identified a range of ocean based adaptation priorities to integrate Ocean-based climate solutions with the global response to climate change.


  
     883     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KGZ_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

These projects are primarily aimed at preserving the integrity of our unique mountain ecosystem and its biological diversity and glaciers, which are rapidly collapsing as a result of climate change.
For three decades, Kyrgyzstan has actively promoted the interests of landlocked mountainous States in the international arena in order to address problems of sustainable development and the impact of climate change.
Mr. Secretary-General,
In the past few years, both the environment and population of our country have begun to feel the negative consequences of climate change quite seriously.
We will certainly give voice to our vision and position at the upcoming 26th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow.
One of mountainous Kyrgyzstan’s priorities and pressing problems is climate change adaptation.
We consider the protection and enhancement of mountainous forest areas vital, since along with their natural function of absorbing carbon dioxide they also play an extremely important role in the conservation of water resources.
At the same time, Kyrgyzstan will try to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
The Kyrgyz economy is gradually greening, with more and more carbon-free energy sources coming into operation, above all hydroelectric power plants.
I invite investors to participate in mutually beneficial cooperative efforts in hydroelectricity, including those based on the principles of public-private partnership, in the spirit of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In that connection, we believe that the time has come to create a special global fund within the United Nations to support mountainous countries in implementing targeted programmes for sustainable development and climate-change adaptation and prevention, for mountain forests and biodiversity, and for dealing with natural disasters and supporting mountain communities.
Mr. Secretary-General,
In conclusion, I want to note that the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and its socioeconomic consequences, the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement should continue to be the top priorities of the united efforts and actions of the international community.


  
     884     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KHM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Our world still has to tackle a myriad of other pressing challenges such as geopolitical competition and rivalries between major powers, technological and trade wars, territorial armed conflicts, terrorism and transnational crimes, and Climate Change.
In my view, the main agenda that must dominate the Summit should be that multilateralism gives priority to convergences: a convergence on the fight against COVID-19 and to build back a stronger society and economy; a convergence on the fight against climate change and on key proposals for WTO reform, amongst others.
Climate change is another impending challenge that requires urgent and concrete global actions at all levels.
In this context, Cambodia supports the Secretary- General’s call to scale up support for regional adaptation and mitigation efforts and reaffirm our commitment to the Paris Agreement, in line with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.


  
     885     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KIR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Of vital importance is securing the limits of our maritime boundaries against the threats of sea-level rise and climate change.
Kiribati believes that once delimitation of our maritime boundary is completed and submitted to the UN Secretary-General in accordance with UNCLOS, maritime boundaries would remain permanent and shall not be affected by climate change and sea-level rise.
Climate Change and Biodiversity
Mr. President,
Recognizing that Kiribati remains vulnerable to Climate Change, I wish to highlight that my Government is committed to continue to build national resilience and enhance actions aligned with climate-resilient sustainable development.
Climate change and its current impacts are on-going and will continue to impact our people, in particular the most vulnerable.
We need to recommit ourselves to our obligations under the Paris Agreement, by putting the needs of our peoples first, and remain guided by what is best for our people.
Global issues of biodiversity and climate change are closely linked, and we cannot address one without the other.
Kiribati is committed to raising ambitions for the post-2020 global biodiversity and climate change targets and I call upon leaders to join Kiribati to enhance collective efforts on this important global issue.


  
     886     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KNA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate Change
The impact of COVID-19 on development more widely, in particular the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, has also been significant but instead of walking away from them we need to work, collectively, even harder to achieve them.
Climate change and climate-related events continue to threaten the existence of small island developing States such as ours.
As the climate crisis intensifies, we witness the erosion of coasts owing to rising sea levels; fisherfolk struggling to maintain their livelihoods from waning oceanic diversity; families forced to relocate away from coastal areas due to the strength, intensity and relentlessness of each passing hurricane season.
Sustainable Development Goals 13, 14 and 15 are of particular significance as they require us, among other things, to improve education and awareness of — as well as human and institutional capacity on — climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning.
A set of more adequate and relevant measures — encompassing social, environmental/climate-related and economic factors — should be used to regulate entitlements.


  
     887     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KOR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am most certain that he will make greater strides in the key agendas dearest to his heart, such as peacekeeping operations, the response to climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
I hope that this year’s session will impart to the people of the world a message of hope that we will emerge victorious from the pandemic and the climate crisis and attain sustainable development.
Another pressing task for the global community is responding to the climate crisis.
Even as we speak, our planet is getting hotter faster than anticipated.
The community of nations must join forces in closer concert to push forward carbon neutrality.
Last year, Korea made a commitment to carbon neutrality by 2050 and legislated its vision and implementation framework by enacting the Framework Act on Carbon Neutrality and Green Growth.
By next month, we will finalize our 2050 carbon neutrality scenario and unveil our enhanced 2030 nationally determined contribution at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in November.
Carbon neutrality can be achieved only when each and every country is engaged in continued cooperation, and action plans must also be sustainable.
Under the New Deal, Korea is turning its carbon neutrality commitment into opportunities to cultivate new industries and create jobs.
Many Korean businesses are voluntarily joining the RE100 campaign and expanding their investment in hydrogen and other new and renewable energy, while pushing forward environmental, social and governance management and carbon neutrality with greater force.
Korea will scale up its climate official development assistance and establish a green new deal trust fund, with a view to supporting the work of the Global Green Growth Institute and sharing its technologies and capacity for carbon neutrality.
We will stand ready to help developing countries build their capacity to tackle the climate crisis.
Moreover, building on our experience as host of the Seoul Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030 Summit in galvanizing global commitment to climate action, Korea seeks to host the twenty- eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2023.
We aspire to play a more vigorous role in the faithful implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     888     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_KWT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The crisis has shown that different aspects of sustainability are interlinked worldwide, including the issue of climate change and ecosystems.
In this regard, we expect the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow in November, to undertake a constructive review to track the progress made and identify shortcomings based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and burdens towards ending environmental degradation characterized by marked increases in temperatures, severe storms and flooding, as well as deforestation owing to fires in a number of countries, which could have severe environmental repercussions.


  
     889     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LAO_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
The Lao PDR has attached the importance of addressing climate change by integrating the commitment under the Paris Agreement into its NSEDP and the National Green Growth Strategy.
From 2000 to 2020, the greenhouse gas emission by Lao PDR has been lowered by 34 percent in comparison with the baseline emission.
Furthermore, the Government has presented a Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) on Climate Change to the United Nations, in which it targets to reduce 60 percent of the greenhouse gas emission by 2030.
This is another remarkable step of the Lao PDR in contribution to tackling climate change issue and upholding its commitment under the Paris Agreement.
In this regard, the Lao PDR sincerely urges all countries around the world to reinforce their efforts to realize the Paris Agreement commitment in order to prevent and minimize the occurrence of severe natural disasters and devastating impacts on our planet.


  
     890     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LBR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The reality of climate change facing our planet demands the urgent attention and collective action of all national and international actors.
In this regard, the recent re-entry into the Paris Accord by the United States of America is a decision that my Government wholeheartedly welcomes and applauds, as we believe that this manifests and demonstrates the critical leadership needed to mobilize global coordinated action.
In the same vein, it is noteworthy that the President of the United States of America, in a recent nationwide address to the American People on the devastation caused by Hurricane Ida, called for immediate and urgent action to combat and reverse global warming trends.
For far too long, we state actors, including those on my own continent who have faced the harshest extremes of weather and climate, have been guilty of window- dressing climate issues with rhetoric and passive declarations.
If you add to this our 1.9 million hectares of agroforestry and coastal mangroves, it becomes obvious that close to 90 per cent of our landmass sequesters carbon.
Our forests are the last remaining untouched tracts of forested land in this region and contain some of the highest aboveground carbon stocks of any forest in the world, even higher than the carbon stocks in the great Amazonian Forest.
As one of the last reserves of such high carbon stocks, it is imperative that Liberia’s forests are maintained in the future.
Nevertheless, we know that many of the highest carbon stock forests in Liberia contain essential natural capital and ecosystem service benefits; benefits which have so far eluded us as a developing nation.
We want to continue to maintain our forest and ecosystem endowments, and our incredible biodiversity, as we embrace climate-smart approaches to agriculture and mining, which are our economic mainstays.
However, in order to do so, Liberia needs meaningful partnerships on this journey of sustainable development; partnerships with the United States, as well as with the rest of the developed world, including the private sector, to allow us to leave our forests intact because of their extraordinary capacity to capture carbon for the benefit of the industrial world.
The impending United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) will provide yet another opportunity to generate more ambitious climate actions and commitments.


  
     891     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LCA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, Mr. President, Saint Lucia cannot pretend to be unconcerned by the fact that Small Island Developing States (SIDS) like Saint Lucia continues to suffer from a number of challenges, arising out of our smallness, our island existence, and our vulnerability to natural disasters and climate change.
Such a shift of focus will reverse achievements in Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) implementation and in building climate resilience.
Climate change continues to wreak havoc across all areas of the globe.
The resilience we need, and the adaptations required system-wide to respond to COVID-19; are directly relevant to the resilience and adaptation required for climate change.
It can be argued that the COVID-19 pandemic and the climate change challenge confronts us with an intermeshed problem of symptom as cause and cause as symptom.
Sadly, Mr. President, the cost of meeting these challenges and undertaking the resilience activities, whether it be for health or climate, is way beyond the financial reach of our small islands.
On the eve of COP26, we encourage the larger economies, the often-major contributors to greenhouse gases, to honour their financial pledges.
This would allow us, the smaller vulnerable economies, whose contributions to greenhouse gases are often negligible, the fiscal room to build climate-resilient societies.


  
     892     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LIE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

First among the challenges facing us is the ever-more dramatic climate crisis.
Both the climate change-related catastrophes of the past months and the most recent report of the International Panel on Climate Change make it brutally clear that we have very little time left to reverse the downward spiral and to meet our obligations to future generations and to humankind as a whole.
We are heartened by the return to a comprehensive multilateralist approach, evidenced by the enhanced support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The upcoming twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Glasgow, is the ultimate test for our collective resolve.
Climate action stands out among the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) reflected in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the biggest standard-setting agreement of the United Nations in its recent history.


  
     893     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LKA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As devastating as the consequences of the pandemic have been to humankind, the world is facing the even greater challenge of climate change in the decades to come.
As emphasized in the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the unprecedented effects of human activity on the health of the planet is deeply worrying.
Addressing the grave threats posed by climate change and the loss of biodiversity requires decisive and urgent multilateral action.
As a climate-vulnerable country, Sri Lanka is deeply aware of the dangers of climate change.
Sri Lanka recognizes the urgent need to reduce the use of fossil fuels and support decarbonization.


  
     894     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LSO_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

With concern over climate change, creating a global coalition to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 should be high on the United Nations agenda ahead of the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow later this year.
The recently published report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reveals that it is now certain that hot extremes have become more frequent and more intense across most regions of the world, while cold extremes have become less frequent and less severe, thereby confirming that human-induced climate change is the main driver of those aberrations.
The report further asserts that some recent hot extremes observed over the past decade would have been extremely unlikely to occur without human influence on the climate system.
It is equally important to note that biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation, just like climate change, are among the top threats facing humankind today.
It is therefore clear that now more than ever there is a need to take urgent and bold global actions to combat climate change and its impacts on humankind.
To ensure conformity with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change protocols over some years now, the Kingdom of Lesotho has joined effort with the rest of the world to increase climate-change resilience and improve the well-being of the Basotho nation through mainstreaming climate change into our development programmes and implementing concrete measures for adaptation and climate risk reduction, mitigation and low-carbon development to achieve green growth.
Furthermore, several initiatives and programmes have been implemented by the Government of Lesotho to address the impacts of climate change.
For instance, Lesotho submitted its nationally determined contributions report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in June 2018, outlining the initiatives to be undertaken to reduce greenhouse gases and adapt to climate change.
Again, Lesotho intends to unconditionally lower its net greenhouse-gas emissions by 10 per cent by 2030 and to further push for an additional 25 per cent greenhouse-gas emission reduction, provided that external support, including capacity-building, is made available to us to cover the full cost of implementing the adaptation and mitigation actions.
Guided by the principle of leaving no one behind, Lesotho continues to call on the international community and other regional and international organizations to support climate-change adaptation and mitigation efforts and strengthen resilience, particularly for vulnerable countries, thus bringing the attainment of the SDGs within reasonable reach.


  
     895     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LTU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I believe that it would be a colossal mistake to treat such violators on the same footing as climate-friendly producers that respect environmental and nuclear safety rules.
I would now like to turn to the challenge of our time — climate change.
The recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change clearly states that we have little time left for necessary decisions and real actions.
Lithuania fully supports Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in his call for urgent and bold steps to address the triple crisis of climate disruption, biodiversity loss and pollution destroying our planet.
It is crucially important for every country to participate at the upcoming twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow, with the most ambitious proposals.
Lithuania seeks a timely transition towards a resilient and climate-neutral economy and is committed to reaching the related European Union targets.
The recently adopted national climate change management agenda sets goals for Lithuania to reduce emissions by 70 per cent as compared to 1990 and to become climate neutral by 2050.
The broad support of society is needed for decarbonization efforts to be effective.
The shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy is inevitable.


  
     896     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LUX_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

And what about the climate crisis?
I have spoken to you, Mr. President, and other colleagues for whom the climate crisis is even a crisis of survival.
Allow me also to mention the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, achieved six years ago.
As I said earlier, however, climate developments show us that we should go further in our contributions, as well as in implementing our commitments.
If we stay on the current trajectory, the temperature will rise by 2.7°C by the end of the century.
We must limit global warming to 1.5°C as compared to the preindustrial levels.
This morning, we had an exchange about the consequences that such global warming may have on some nations.
I also thank the countries that have stayed within or returned to the Paris Agreement.
Several years ago, I was afraid that when certain countries said that they no longer wanted to be part of the Paris Agreement, it could have a domino effect and that that would be counterproductive.
For us, it is important to reduce net greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 55 per cent.
We must also fulfil our commitments to developing countries and help them to strengthen their capacity to cope with the effects of climate change.
My country, for example, has decided to double its international climate financing to €200 million for the period from 2021 to 2025.1 would like to point out that Luxembourg’s climate financing is in addition to our official development assistance, to which we continue to devote at least 1 per cent of our gross domestic product.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will open soon in Glasgow.
Speaking of future generations, UNICEF estimates that more than 1 billion children are exposed to climate shocks.
The climate crisis is therefore also a children’s rights crisis.
Human rights are tested every day by the climate crisis and the pandemic but also by wars and conflicts, which are theatres for crimes that shock the human conscience, from Afghanistan to the Sahel via the Middle East, Syria and Yemen, as well as Ethiopia.
Our second relates to sustainable development and climate action based on human rights.
We recognize the importance of the right to development and of ensuring that our ambitious climate action and cooperation policies take into account the strong links between the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the fight against climate change and respect for human rights worldwide.


  
     897     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_LVA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

In many cases, digital solutions have reduced the need to commute, which helps to limit emissions.
When individual scientists and environmental activists began to express concerns about climate issues in the 1990s, few listened to them.
There is an urgent need to reach our common goals on the environment, climate change and renewable energy.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow later this year, will be an important milestone.
Latvia is committed to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and has adopted an ambitious development strategy that aims to minimize carbon production.
In Latvia, like elsewhere, youth are deeply concerned about the climate crisis and disinformation.


  
     898     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MAR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Although the pandemic currently tops the list of global challenges, it will not diminish our interest in such broad issues as migration, counter-terrorism and climate change.
The involvement of Morocco in local, regional and international efforts to address the effects of climate change has been guided by the proactive vision of His Majesty King Mohammed VI, as the country embarks on a plan to shift towards the use of renewable energy and diversify sources of clean energy.
The Kingdom of Morocco has voluntarily set the ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 45.5 per cent by 2030, after raising its initial reduction target from 42 per cent.


  
     899     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MCO_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

By convening the United Nations Food Systems Summit and the high-level dialogue on energy, you are giving these issues their just due by placing them on the political agenda, while balancing the fight against climate change with meeting the future needs of 10 billion people in 2050.
Mr. President,
Mr. Secretary-General,
Monaco is pursuing its energy transition in order to meet the goal I set on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement, namely a 55 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050.
But this effort must be global, as neither the Principality’s commitments nor those of any other country alone will be able to prevent the temperature from rising beyond 1.5°C by the end of the century.
I therefore call on all States to be as ambitious as possible, as they review their nationally determined contributions to the fight against climate change, and adopt robust measures at the upcoming COP-26 to be held in Glasgow.
The Earth will survive this climate crisis, as it has so many times in the past.


  
     900     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MDA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, climate change, growing international security issues and the fragility of the international rules-based order all require joint efforts in the quest for sustainable solutions.
Secondly, with regard to climate change, another major challenge that we are all facing, we are living through its consequences as we speak.
Extreme weather, record high temperatures and floods are affecting every country.
For the Republic of Moldova, climate change means severe droughts every few years, along with floods and ruined crops and livelihoods.
The Republic of Moldova’s footprint in terms of climate change has been slight, and we are committed to keeping it that way.


  
     901     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MDG_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

While the world was struggling with the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis also struck with full force.
Among the disasters caused by climate change we are also seeing rising sea levels and growing desertification.
Madagascar is affected by the consequences of climate change, too.
My compatriots there have paid a heavy price in the climate crisis, a crisis that they did not create.
In the fight against climate change, all our efforts will be in vain if the lax application of sanctions and measures to combat climate change continues.


  
     902     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MDV_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The adverse impacts of climate change are increasing.
There is overwhelming scientific evidence that the climate emergency could be catastrophic to humankind.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report entitled Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, published just a few weeks ago, was a shocking reiteration of what we have long known.
It is shocking because of the starkness of its pronouncement that we have simply brushed off the reality of climate change for far too long.
The rate of sea-level rise has tripled in comparison to the period 1901 to 1970.
We have already caused a 1.1 °C increase in global warming.
Global emissions need to be reduced by 45 per cent by 2030, and reach net-zero by 2050, if we are to limit warming to 1.5°C.
“Existential threat”, “cease to exist”, “climate vulnerable”, “risk of disappearing”, “loss of identity” and “environmental refugees” are all phrases commonly tossed around to describe the plight that the people of the Maldives and other island States like us would face if current trends continue unabated.
Addressing the climate emergency requires a break from the lacklustre business-as-usual practices that currently dominate the global climate-change regime.
It requires countries to adopt more stringent measures to halt their emissions.
It needs the world’s wealthy nations to help smaller nations receive the necessary support — in the form of capacity-building, technology transfers and financial resources — to ramp up their defences in the climate fight.
It also requires us to give up our addiction to fossil fuels and adopt cleaner, smarter technologies for our energy use.
We are determined to not passively wait on the climate front.


  
     903     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MEX_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global warming is the other great challenge of this time.
Mexico submitted its updated nationally determined contribution (NDC) at the end of 2020, reiterating its support for the Paris Climate Agreement, as well as its interest in working in partnership with the international community.
Mexico’s NDC not only contains mitigation commitments, but it also has
a strong adaptation component that recognizes the country’s vulnerability to climate change impacts and the urgency of building resilience to them.


  
     904     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MHL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Climate change remains the greatest threat to the security and well-being of our region — especially to low-lying atoll nations like my own.
The tireless leadership of small island developing states, and wider circles of partners, makes clear that an overwhelming global majority demands the Paris Agreement must be delivered in actions, not empty words.
This year’s Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC offers a vital opportunity for the world to make good on the promises of the Paris Agreement to raise ambition.
We have put forward our own commitment for stronger action — both on our own national commitments on emissions and adaptation, as well as expectations for meaningful leadership by the international maritime sector for greater ambition — but we cannot act alone.
This year is the moment to rebuild higher ambition, and the world, especially the most vulnerable, cannot afford failure to hold temperature rise to below 1.5°C.
Earlier promises of stronger climate finance remain unfulfilled, and even if delivered, must be far more accessible to those most in need.
As sea-levels continue to rise unabated, there is now an immediate threshold between unfulfilled promises and meaningful action.
A Special Rapporteur on climate change is needed to strengthen the focus and human rights lens on those most vulnerable, where there are often no easy solutions.
The world simply cannot delay climate ambition any further.


  
     905     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MKD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We can only deal with global challenges, whether in the areas of security, disease or climate change, by exercising more empathy, cooperation and solidarity.
A broad international consensus is slowly forming that the greatest challenge of our time is probably climate change, which we see happening every day with varying intensity and in different forms.
Despite the fact that we feel the effects of climate change in our daily lives and are increasingly aware of the need to mitigate them, it seems that we unfortunately have difficulty in mobilizing our strength against this menace.
Reaffirming its past pledges, North Macedonia remains committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, while at the same time increasing its national contribution incorporated
into national laws and policies and regulatory measures.
We look forward to and have great expectations for the upcoming twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow, considering it a crucial phase in our common efforts to restore the only home we have — our planet Earth.


  
     906     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MLI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a Sahelian country focused predominantly on agriculture, livestock and fishing, Mali remains deeply concerned about climate change, which presents one of the major challenges for the survival and development of humankind.
Indeed, my country suffers the full force of the effects of climate change, characterized by the advance of desertification and its impact on flora and fauna, the drying up of our rivers and streams, higher temperatures and more floods, and so on.
That is why I would like to reaffirm Mali’s commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     907     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MLT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is also the best form of preparedness against the global challenges that are impacting us all, particularly Climate Change.
As political leaders the major responsibility falls upon us but we must engage with the private sector, academia, and entities from all walks of life to stop human induced climate change and seek solutions to adapt to its negative repercussions after we have done all we can to mitigate it.
In this regard, a successful COP26 is critical to meet our long-term climate neutrality objective.
I am proud to state that achieving carbon neutrality is one of the five major pillars of my country’s economic vision for 2030.
My government has adopted a Low Carbon Development Strategy that integrates mitigation with adaptation, which includes significant investments in the sectors of waste management, road transport, renewable energy and the energy efficiency of buildings.
Despite the severe economic impact COVID-19 has had upon national finances, our programme for an ambitious decarbonisation programme has not waivered.
As one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change within the EU, Malta is a keen advocate in favour of a focus on adaptation.
Small Island States are amongst the lowest emitters but the most vulnerable to climate change.
We also have limited options to reduce emissions, leading us to incur higher marginal and disproportionate abatement costs.
Climate change by itself, and as a threat multiplier, poses significant challenges that may exacerbate long-existing vulnerabilities and emerging conflicts as well as threaten the very existence of some countries and regions.
In view of this, the relationship between climate and security will be high on Malta’s agenda if elected to the UN Security Council for the term 2023-2024.
Malta is committed to ensuring that the voices of those States mostly affected by the impacts of Climate Change are heard.
As we are continuously witnessing, climate change is triggering severe and frequent weather phenomena that bring entire regions and States to their knees.
Our belief is that genuine and durable partnerships can assist in the fulfilment of the Sustainable Development Goals, the fight against climate change and the opportunities for decarbonisation, as well as in addressing the threats to our ocean and the potential we share to develop the Blue Economy.
As a founding member of the Alliance of Small Island Developing States, Malta’s goal is to become a leader in Small Island State Governance, standing ready to share our plans on decarbonisation and also digitalisation.
Without an adequate global response, the cumulative effects of the pandemic and its economic fallout, armed conflict, and climate change will exact high human and economic costs well into the future.


  
     908     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MNE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

A path focused on clear vision and commitment, quality and continuity, efficiency and effectiveness, cooperation and solidarity, determination and responsibility is the only road to dealing with our
growing global problems, from the pandemic and climate change to famine, migrations, human rights violations and humanitarian crises.
We are witnessing a growing climate and environmental crisis.
The High Commissioner for Human Rights recently presented very worrying findings in Geneva about the global human rights situation in the context of environmental issues, saying that climate change, pollution and loss of biodiversity will together constitute by far the most serious challenge to human rights in our era.
The full implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Climate Agreement are crucial to better recovery from the pandemic and to global preparation against future systemic shocks.
That is why it is particularly important that in preparing for the World Climate Summit and Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow in November this year, all countries mobilize an additional level of ambition in achieving their long-term goals for reducing global warming.
Although Montenegro’s share of global emissions is tiny, in December 2020 we increased our climate goals, thereby affirming our strong and constant commitment to tackling climate challenges adequately.
That is why it is exceptionally important to integrate the components of action that will be based on human rights both when new climate goals are set and when a new global biodiversity framework is defined.


  
     909     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MNG_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change has had devastating effects in recent decades.
One of the causes of adverse climate change is thoughtless human activity, the result of our own careless behaviour towards nature and the environment.
In our fight against climate change, let us draw lessons from traditional Mongolian nomadic civilization in treating and regarding nature respectfully and combining that with the achievements of modern science and technology, as well as best practices and traditional experiences from all over the world.
The main reasons are an increase of 2.2°C in the mean temperature and a 7 per cent decline in annual precipitation levels over the past 80 years.
We have therefore launched a campaign to plant billions of trees by 2030 in order to contribute to the global fight against climate change.
Climate change and the degradation of ecosystems pose a real threat to the future of humankind, irrespective of borders or ethnicity.
Conscious of the critical turning point we find ourselves at, countries around the globe have decided to gather in Glasgow in November for the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I urge my fellow leaders to increase and renew their respective contributions and pledges in relation to fostering green development, reducing greenhouse-gas emissions and developing environmentally friendly societies and economies.
The key approach to making a swift recovery from the damages of the pandemic and restoring our blue planet is through close cooperation and mutual understanding and assistance, as well as our commitment to continuing and stepping up our implementation of internationally agreed development goals, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.


  
     910     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MOZ_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate-related issues are emerging as one of the most pressing challenges at international level.
That is why Mozambique attaches particular importance to concerted efforts aimed at mitigating the effects of climate change within the Sendai Framework on Disaster Risk Reduction and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Climate change continues to pose a major obstacle to the implementation of socioeconomic development programmes in our countries.
Despite our negligible contribution to greenhouse-gas emissions, our countries are the ones most affected by climate change, in particular by global warming.
The cuts in international financing for programmes aimed at promoting resilience and adaptation to climate change have had an adverse impact and constitute a major challenge to developing countries.


  
     911     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MRT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The convening of this General Assembly session represents an opportunity to study ways to raise the performance of our Organization to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, which aim to address the major challenges related to the environment, climate, health, education, security, stability and development.
That framework aims to broaden support to the Sahel countries, which in recent years have experienced a drastic deterioration in the security situation, forced migration, climate change and signs of an acute food crisis.
The upcoming twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change should be an opportunity to mobilize partners to realize the commitments made in Paris in January in to meet the glaring needs of the peoples of the Sahel, who are desperate in the face of the vicious spiral of an unpredictable climate and growing insecurity.


  
     912     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MUS_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
The Paris Agreement was hailed as a major breakthrough in our efforts to tackle climate change, but the climate events since, show that unless we commit to doing much more, our planet, and indeed our existence, are severely threatened.
The last Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report is unequivocal, we are in the red and human influence is to a large extent responsible for the state of our atmosphere, ocean, and land.
The world has great expectations from the COP26 Summit.
Mauritius welcomes the fact that the Green Climate Fund has nearly reached the level of contributions that has been pledged.


  
     913     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MWI_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must choose for our children a future of zero carbon emissions; or a future of daily climate catastrophes that wipe out crops, homes, cities, and some nations in this room.
Here and now, we must answer the four crises that are before us: the climate crisis, the COVID crisis, the sustainable development crisis, and the UN Governance crisis.
For the Climate Crisis, the starting point is three words: Fulfil Your Pledge.
It’s been over ten years since the developed nations that polluted our planet the most pledged $100 billion towards climate mitigation and adaptation.
This is a cleaning fee, because if you pollute the planet we all call home, it is only right that you should pay to clean it up.
The need to work together on SDGs is why I am looking forward to host a Climate Conference for SADC next month, in readiness for our collaboration with other regions at the upcoming COP26 in Glasgow.


  
     914     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_MYS_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate Action
That said, rebuilding lives and economies after the pandemic will not come easy.
We have set ambitious plans to facilitate the transition to a more sustainable, low-carbon, and climate-resilient future.
We are confident that they will greatly contribute towards making Malaysia a low carbon nation by 2050.


  
     915     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NAM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Namibia, however, aims to deploy innovative approaches to ensure sustainable economic development in this volatile period of pandemic and climate change.
We are also well positioned through our recent membership in the High-level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy to design and champion a sustainable blue economy, which will grow our economic base and create much- needed jobs while also tackling climate change.


  
     916     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NER_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Therefore, despite the weakness of the economy and the persistence of other impacts, in particular with respect to security and climate, the Government took bold measures to maintain a positive growth rate of 3 per cent in 2020.
In addition to the disastrous socioeconomic consequences, the COVID-19 pandemic has also amplified the challenges facing the countries of the Sahel, namely, climate change and the security crisis.
While in some regions of the world climate change has resulted in floods, forest fires and rising sea levels, in other regions, such as the Sahel region, it has resulted in extreme weather events, including recurrent droughts, the degradation of agricultural land — for example, the Niger loses 100,000 hectares per year — and floods and locust infestations.
As stated by His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Bazoum, President and Head of State of the Republic of the Niger, at the meeting of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change, held in Niamey,
“[i]f we are to win the fight against climate change, we need more political will.
We must, at the strategic and operational levels, promote the implementation of synergistic and coherent actions to make our people more resilient in the face of climate shocks and emerging challenges, in the pirit of the Paris Agreement”.
In that regard, the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which was just published, is a call for mobilization to action.
By clearly affirming that human action is an undeniable factor of climate change, the report calls on us to act immediately to meet the challenge of maintaining the level of global warming at 1.5°C.
The next conference of the parties to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), which will be held in Glasgow in November, should meet that requirement, in particular through the development of a common position that will enable us to overcome the remaining challenges.
It is the Niger’s hope that the high-level COP26 meeting in Glasgow will serve as a platform to reaffirm political will to fight against the effects of climate change.
It is our conviction that the fragility linked to climate change is an aggravating factor in conflicts and humanitarian crises.
Just as we have done in the fight against the pandemic, we must resolutely tackle the challenges of climate change — that other pandemic with devastating effects; the fight against terrorism and cybercrime; and many other problems specific to our century.


  
     917     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NGA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The impact of climate change is already with us in Nigeria, as manifested in various ways: it has triggered conflicts, caused food insecurity, dried up lakes and resulted in youth migration and the loss of livelihoods, among other things.
The trend is the same in many other countries that are threatened by forest fires, rising sea levels, drought and desertification.
As leaders, we must create inclusive and gender-sensitive policies that address all issues connected to climate action, from mitigation to resilience.
That is why we are working on a transition to a low-carbon economy, consistent with implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
The global food system has been impacted in recent times by several factors, such as population growth, the availability of, and accessibility to, arable land and water resources, climate change and the loss of biodiversity.
Climate change and unpredictable shocks such as the current global pandemic further exacerbate the vulnerabilities of the global food system, requiring the urgent attention of the United Nations.


  
     918     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NIC_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The global health crisis continues to undermine our efforts to overcome existing issues and challenges such as poverty, hunger, malnutrition, inequality, unemployment and climate change — all caused by an irrational and oppressive system of capitalist exploitation.
As our peoples work, resist, respond to and recover from the pandemic, we should not forget the challenges posed by the threat of climate change and its devastating impact, especially on developing countries.
To preserve and uphold the right to life on Mother Earth, it will be crucial to achieve concrete results at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow.
It is based on the principle of shared but differentiated responsibilities, which bolsters accountability and underscores the importance of honouring the commitments made for climate justice and the vital policy of providing reparations through direct and unconditional cooperation.
If we allow time to pass without the developed countries honouring their commitments, the damage to Mother Earth caused by global warming will be irreversible.
It has been shown that Central America and the Caribbean is a region that is highly vulnerable to the impact of climate change.
In addition to other climate phenomena, weather events are increasingly frequent and intense.
Nicaragua joined the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2017 in a commitment to strengthening the interests of the most vulnerable countries and aligning its Government policies, strategies and instruments with it, with a view to helping to meet the goal of limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5°C.
The largest polluters must shoulder that historic responsibility.


  
     919     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NLD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Using hard science and clear statistics, the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change confirmed what we could see with our own eyes:
climate change is happening now.
The second is the disruptive impact of the climate crisis and what we need to do in response.
Together with the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the SDGs are our guide towards a sustainable recovery in an uncertain world.
That brings me to my second point, which is the disruptive impact of climate change.
Every part of the world experienced extreme weather and devastating natural disasters that are clearly the result of climate change caused by humans.
The six low-lying islands of the Caribbean that are part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands live with the constant threat of sea- level rise, drought and tropical hurricanes, like much of the global South.
Elsewhere in the world, extreme temperatures had devastating impacts, including severe forest fires that forced many people to flee their homes.
Clearly, we need to collectively embrace climate action, and we need to do it fast.
It is therefore more vital than ever that the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in November, succeed.
Together we must find a way to reduce harmful emissions to net zero by 2050, and we must ensure that the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C degrees remains within reach.
And limiting emissions is not the only challenge.
Climate adaptation is at least as important because the impact of climate change is already a threat — one we have to arm ourselves against now.
Climate adaptation is in our DNA.
That is why we hosted the online Climate Adaptation Summit at the beginning of this year.
We have increased our public climate financing, and we support Secretary-General Guterres’ call to spend at least half of it on adaptation.
In fact, in recent years the Kingdom of the Netherlands has spent almost 70 per cent of its public climate financing on adaptation.
We need to step up our efforts on both adaptation and mitigation and help one another do so.


  
     920     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NOR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

President, Excellencies,
We are contending with three crises at the same time: a climate crisis, a health crisis, and an economic crisis.
Let me start with climate change.
Together, we will work to limit temperature increase to 1.5°C, in line with the goal of the Paris Agreement.
The transition to a low-emission society will require profound change.
To ensure a fair and just transition, we must cut emissions — not jobs.
We must put a price on carbon.
More countries, especially large economies, need to raise their ambition level ahead of COP26.
Norway’s new target is to cut emissions by at least 50 per cent —and towards 55 per cent by 2030.
We will also continue to partner with developing countries in their efforts to achieve climate-resilient and sustainable development.
President,
To tackle climate change, we urgently need to restore the health of the ocean.
Twice this year, the Security Council has discussed the security implications of climate change.
The extension of the New START Treaty is a welcome step forward.


  
     921     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NPL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is very significant to see a South Asian chosen to preside over the proceedings of the Assembly at a time when the world is in a ferment in the midst of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and the climate crisis.
It has exacerbated pre-existing and perennial challenges, such as poverty, hunger, unemployment, inequalities and climate change, exposing systemic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and inadequacies in health systems around the world.
Whether it is manifested in rising sea levels or the melting of Himalayan glaciers, hurricanes, storms, floods or fires, climate change has become an existential threat to humankind.
Reports indicate that warmer conditions have even prompted animals and plants to adopt new behaviours and evolve new traits.
Nepal is at the sharp end of climate change, despite its negligible share of greenhouse-gas emissions.
For our part, we reiterate our commitment to delivering climate-resilient development pathways by 2030 and net-zero emissions by 2050.
The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, equity and respective capabilities should be at the centre of the climate agenda if we are to ensure climate justice.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow, must provide a breakthrough.
The climate ambitions of developing countries must be met with easier access to adequate financial and technological support for adaptation and mitigation.
At the same time, the world is becoming more complex and polarized, with transnational challenges ranging from terrorism to climate change to food insecurity to mass
migration to political radicalism and extremism.


  
     922     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NRU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Nauru as one of the smallest member of the UN family and one of the most vulnerable, is committed to multilateralism as our only way forward together, though we must open our eyes to the reality of its current failures and act to implement our historic agreements across many issues like sustainable development, climate change, development finance, and more.
With the unprecedented challenges of COVID-19 and the climate crisis we are in, it is even more important that we have a resident coordinator system that is well funded and fully operationalized.
Nauru, like many SIDS face barriers to sustained economic growth due to our geographic remoteness, small scale of our economy, vulnerabilities to climate change, external economic and financial shocks and the rules that govern development assistance.
Pathway, 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, and the Paris Agreement is vital to the full and effective implementation of those historic agreements.
Without adequate and predictable support from the international community Nauru and many island nations will not be able to realize the Sustainable Development Goals, nor to adapt, and mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change.
Mr. President,
We must end our war on nature and address the droughts, floods, fires, famine and more that climate change has provoked.
Despite the undeniable impacts touching every corner of the world, we are faced with the harsh truth that funding for the root causes of climate change is exponentially greater than funding for our response.
Climate change is the greatest threat to our shared future, to people, the planet, peace, and prosperity.
Nauru, alongside our neighbours in the Pacific echo the alarm raised by the recent findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and its “code red for humanity”.
We are undertaking ambitious actions in Nauru to address the climate crisis, but we cannot do it alone.
Leaders and nations everywhere must act; and act swiftly and decisively to close the widening emissions gap and keep rising temperatures well below 1.5°C goal.
The lived realities of climate change have been with many of our countries for some time now.
Climate change undermines and threatens the ability of Governments and institutions to deliver basic services such as food and water.
The pandemic has met the increasing impacts of climate change and multiplied them with rising inequalities and economic regressions, the resulting dangerous blend weakens the ability of any one Government to protect the safety and security of its citizens, risking social and political unrest.
The security implications of climate change are transboundary in nature and require a multilateral response.
We will continue to advocate for a new Office for a Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Climate and Security.
Climate change has crept into every facet and sector of life from the air we breathe, to the food we eat, to the homes we live in, and our response must be equally diverse and comprehensive.
We are fast approaching COP26, and an opportunity that must be utilized to stem the current record-breaking period of extreme weather and climate disasters.
We call upon the G20 to phase out all fossil fuel subsidies by 2023 and accelerate actions towards transitioning to low Greenhouse Gas emission, climate- resilient economies, in line with Article (2)(l)(c) of the Paris Agreement.
We also call on the G20 to take into consideration environmental and social safeguards in their energy systems to have long-term and sustainable alignment to the Paris Agreement.
Building upon our strong regional ties Nauru was proud to host the Micronesian President’s Summit just recently, which endorsed the Naoero Communique on strengthened cooperation on several areas related to regional security resulting from climate change and sea-level rise, transnational crime, and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
These polymetallic nodules are needed to transform big and small countries energy systems and support our fight against the climate crisis.
Mr. President,
I will conclude in hope for our ability to come together in solidarity, to overcome COVID-19, address climate change and achieve equality.


  
     923     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_NZL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is perhaps no better example of a global crisis that demands action than climate change.
Climate change is one of the most pervasive crises of our time.
From rising sea levels to shifting weather patterns, the impacts are global in scope, unprecedented in scale, and happening right now.
Climate change touches all of our lives, but countries in the Pacific are some of the most affected, despite having contributed least to the problem.
Pacific leaders view climate change as the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and wellbeing of the peoples of the region.
Any global response that fails to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels is unacceptable.
The latest science from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is stark.
The climate crisis cannot be beaten through incrementalism.
New Zealand has made the 1.5°C limit the heart of our domestic climate change legislation.
This year New Zealand conducted its first national climate change risk assessment to tell us where to focus our effort, and within two years we will have a national adaptation plan.
This will store carbon, but it will also support forest resilience, prevent erosion, improve biodiversity, and support our rural and indigenous communities.
This includes bringing an end to fossil fuel and other environmentally harmful subsidies.
It includes pooling our resources and knowledge through the Global Research Alliance so that we can grow more food without growing emissions.
It includes negotiating an agreement on climate change, trade and sustainability.
We must collectively address the unjust and potentially destabilising consequences of climate change.
For Small Island Developing States, one of the gravest consequences is sea-level rise.
It is only right that as an international community, we work to ensure the maintenance of those zones and rights in the face of climate change-related sea- level rise.
As a contribution to this objective, I was pleased to join my fellow Pacific Islands Forum Leaders in issuing the ‘Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the Face of Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise’, in August this year.
Climate change is closely interlinked with another crisis of a planetary scale — that of global biodiversity loss.
It will both accelerate climate change, and make its impacts worse.
They suffer from, and contribute to, the overlapping impacts of climate change and biodiversity loss.
We will do our part in supporting these efforts, including on initiatives that acknowledge the leadership of indigenous peoples in food systems and increase global ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture.
For our part — this is an area where we are working hard, with a unique agreement between our food sector, government and Maori to reduce agricultural emissions through a pricing mechanism.


  
     924     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_OMN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like other countries of the world, my country pays great attention to the risks of climate change that affect the ecological and agricultural systems, and the economic infrastructure.
Hence, to confront climate change and limit its increasing effects, the Sultanate of Oman has implemented its Draft National Strategy for adapting to climate change and mitigating its effects.
My country recently submitted its second Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) report to mitigate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions, as part of its commitments to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The world is witnessing new transformations as a result of scientific and technological progress, which calls on us, once more, to emphasize the importance of strengthening the global- partnership in this field, so as to maximize the use of advanced technologies and keep pace with them, as part of the sustainable development goals, and face contemporary challenges, the most important of which are those that threaten the climate.


  
     925     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PAK_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
The world is facing triple challenge of the COVID-19, the accompanying economic crisis, and the threats posed by climate change.
Mr. President,
Climate change is one of the primary existential threats that our planet faces today.
Pakistan’s contribution to global emissions is negligible.
Yet we are among the 10 most vulnerable countries to the effects of climate change in the world.
Being fully aware of our global responsibilities, we have embarked upon game changing environmental programmes: reforesting Pakistan through our 10 billion tree tsunami; preserving natural habitats; switching to renewable energy; removing pollution from our cities; and adapting to the impacts of climate change.
To address the triple crisis of COVID pandemic, economic downturn, and climate emergency, we need a comprehensive strategy that should include:
One, vaccine equity: everyone, everywhere, must be vaccinated against COVID, and as soon as possible;
Two, adequate financing must be made available to developing countries.
This can be ensured through comprehensive debt restructuring; expanded ODA; redistribution of unutilized SDRs, and allotment of a greater proportion of SDRs to developing countries; and finally, provision of climate finance; and
Three, we must adopt clear investment strategies which help alleviate poverty, promote job creation, build sustainable infrastructure, and of course bridge the digital divide.
I fear a few “wealthy islands” in the sea of poverty will also turn into a global calamity, like climate change.


  
     926     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PAN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

After the pandemic, the greatest challenge that we still have to tackle is climate change.
The current refusal
to believe in the reality of climate change and its effects must be relegated to the past.
Every major problem facing our planet is connected to climate change.
We are one of three countries in the world classified as carbon-negative.
I repeat, Panama is one of the only three carbon-negative countries in the world.


  
     927     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PER_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The fight against climate change is challenging our consciences.
Limiting the temperature increase to between 1.5° and 2.0°C s, a goal set out in the Paris Climate Agreement, is now compromised in its viability.
The effects of climate change are increasingly devastating.
Moreover, the countries that pollute the most must imperatively comply with the obligations they have assumed.
Peru has set the goals of becoming a carbon-neutral country by 2050 and of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 30 to 40 per cent, in line with projections for 2030.
As an expression of the Peruvian Government’s commitment to the health of the planet, we will declare a national climate emergency.


  
     928     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PHL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate crisis has worsened, inequalities have deepened, and the geopolitical balance is in a state of dangerous flux.
Just as COVID-19 has had an uneven impact on peoples, climate change has also exposed the varying vulnerabilities of countries around the globe.
The risks and burden of a warming climate are simply not the same for everyone.
We have submitted our first Nationally Determined Contribution, with a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 75 per cent by 2030.
But this contribution will be rendered useless if the biggest polluters — past and present — choose to do ‘business as usual’.
We therefore appeal for urgent climate action, especially from those that can truly tip the balance.
Developed countries must fulfil their long-standing commitment to climate financing, technology transfer, and capacity-building in the developing world.


  
     929     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PLW_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today I ask the global community to take the same level of urgency and bold action in responding to the existential threat of climate change.
That results in significant increases in non-communicable diseases among our people.
While there is potential for increased local production, our efforts are hampered by the adverse impact of climate change, including sea-level rise, typhoons, droughts and other stress on marine and terrestrial ecosystems.
The gradual destruction caused by climate change has allowed us to be complacent and to respond by kicking the can down the road.
However, the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has indicated that we are running out of time.
As a SIDS, we stand here as one of the States most vulnerable to climate change, and we urge fast and comprehensive multilateral action to mitigate the effects of climate change.
Ocean-based climate action can play a significant role in shrinking the world’s carbon footprint.
The Ocean Panel has commissioned research that found ocean-based climate action can deliver up to a fifth — 21 per cent — of the annual greenhouse-gas emissions cuts needed to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C by 2050.
One of the major issues in addressing the risks of climate change and the climate-ocean nexus is our inability and lack of capacity in accessing climate financing.
Of the 20 per cent of climate financing provided on adaptation, only 2 per cent of that support went to SIDS.
We urge the United Nations to address that inequality and reduce the artificial barriers to allowing small countries to access climate financing.
A recent study on the Palau National Marine Sanctuary by Stanford University stated that rising temperatures will produce warmer waters that will hold less oxygen.
Those analyses project a 40 per cent decline in skipjack and yellowfin tuna biomass in Palau’s waters by the year 2100, if we continue on this high-emissions trajectory.
All the nations working together can overcome the challenges of our time, from COVID-19 to climate, and act with integrity and resolve to leave a better world for our children.


  
     930     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PNG_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The current situation is compounded by the intensifying and worrisome global climate crisis, accelerated biodiversity losses and other humanitarian, peace, security and trade-related issues, which pose great challenges to the way we now manage our regional and global socioeconomic affairs.
The Pacific Ocean, or the Blue Pacific continent, is home to marine and terrestrial biodiversity and is where the most vulnerable small island States are being exposed to the global threats of a rising sea level due to climate change and the health and associated economic woes brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic.
As we convene and continue to speak on climate change in our twenty-first century forums such as the General Assembly Hall, I wish to remind us all that little children and their families are living amid the seas of the earth in fear and uncertainty of what their future will be like, because in their lifetime they have seen their safe, arable land lost due to sea-level rise and are watching as the structures that their lives are built upon slip away.
It is time for the big carbon emitters of planet Earth to own up and apologize to the small island States and all other victims of climate change, and I make no apologies for that statement.
Today I make a call on all of us, especially to the big carbon-emitting nations, which are now enjoying their national economic transformations through industrialization, to pause, think and take responsibility in order to save our planet.
I am comforted by the recent commitments made by President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Boris Johnson on their respective nations’ intention to respond better to tackling climate-change issues.
We have to take action that is commensurate with the volume of emissions from our industries.
The leaders of the big carbon-emitting nations must now lead the global effort in rebalancing the environmental equilibrium.
We also function as a great carbon sink.
We are a net remover of carbon from the atmosphere.
Our energy emissions at present are approximately 10 million annually.
Therefore, if the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation mechanism delivers as it should, Papua New Guinea can remain where every country needs to be by 2050 under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change — a net remover of carbon from the atmosphere.
The recent Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report is crystal clear in indicating that human actions are the cause of the worsening climate crisis.
We have long said that climate change poses a very serious existential threat to our national security and well-being.
Therefore, the climate-security nexus reality must and cannot continue to be denied by the Security Council, as that would be dereliction of duty towards all peoples worldwide on the part of the Council.
Let me also welcome and commend the excellent leadership and efforts of the United Kingdom, as the President-designate of the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26), Italy as the co-host of COP26 and the Secretary-General in rallying the international community to take the bold decisions and practical measures necessary to deliver on the Paris Agreement commitments.
I cannot overstate the urgency and the ambitious actions needed under the Paris Agreement to undo the serious damage that humankind has caused to Planet Earth.
We all must commit to the energy targets, deal with land use and advocate for the preservation of biodiversity, and also be bolder in climate-financing commitments.
I join previous speakers in calling on the international community to collectively meet our Paris Agreement obligations and to submit individual nationally determined contributions without delay.
Papua New Guinea was among the first countries to submit its NDC in 2020, outlining its goal to be carbon-neutral by 2050.
We want to see major carbon emitters in the industrialized nations be genuine and committed in their actions to fund climate-change mitigation and adaptation.
We wish to advocate also that the $100 billion annual commitment by developed countries to developing nations on climate financing be considered different from official development assistance.
That will allow its guidelines to be sensitive to the climate-change mitigation and adaptation agenda and their specific requirements.
As a natural gas and oil exporter, we are working towards ensuring that our carbon footprint is minimized
by implementing Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 Roadmap 2020-2030 on Climate Change, launched last year.
However, despite multiple project submissions for climate financing, Papua New Guinea has had limited success in accessing those funds, except for technical assistance in developing the fiduciary framework.
Other forms of assistance towards climate-change adaptation and mitigation must also be streamlined in order to lessen the increasing debt burden in small island States to free up the required fiscal space to support efforts to bring about an economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and achieve sustainable development.
I further call on Member States to finalize robust and fair carbon markets under the Paris rulebook to unlock new financing streams that better account for the sustainable development interests of countries such as my own.
It is my Government’s desire to transform the agriculture sector into a reliable, commercial, sustainable food system that will address food security and climate resilience as well as the conservation and management of our vast biodiversity.
I would underline, however, that my country, with its abundant arable land, has the potential to serve as a food basket for the Asia-Pacific region and beyond, particularly at a time when food security around the world is now being threatened by the ravages of climate change, sea-level rise and other crises.
In the energy sector, we recognize the importance of an energy transition to renewable sources so as to move significantly away from fossil fuels and to options including hydro, solar, wind and geothermal energy.
It resonates very well with my Government’s development priorities, and we look forward to harnessing the 10-year action plan under the global road map to attain Goal 7 by 2030 and to further exploring joining an energy compact to support the achievement of Goal 7 by 2030 and reach net-zero emissions by 2050.
It is in that context as well as with the devastating wildfires and catastrophic climate change events around the world impacting adversely on biodiversity that we look forward to a successful outcome of the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, which will take place in China next month.
Regionally, I am pleased to join my fellow leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum in heralding our milestone regional Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the Face of Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise, which was adopted last month.
As large States within the Blue Pacific continent and with the advent of the devastating consequences of runaway climate change and rising sea-levels that continue to threaten our countries and people’s security, lives, livelihoods and sovereignty, the Declaration preserves our maritime zones in the face of climate change-related sea-level rise.
My earlier remark on climate change gives us the basis to call for such support and actions.


  
     931     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_POL_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like the Secretary-General, I can see the need for international solidarity with regard to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) vaccination process; like him, I can see the need for action on the climate crisis and the protection of biodiversity.
I searched with my own eyes for those who are planning for and have approved the construction of Nord Stream 2.
The pandemic has nearly removed from the headlines another major topic — the fight against climate change and for a secure future for us all, our children and grandchildren.
We leaders must realize what it takes to protect people and the planet from climate change.
Those countries are then blamed for polluting the planet.
Between 1988 and 2016, Poland reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by more than 30 per cent.
Indeed, during our presidency of the twenty- fourth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we managed to finalize the negotiations on the Katowice Rulebook — an agreement that streamlines the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change so as to make it transparent and fair to all parties.
The document is an important step towards the transition to low- and zero-emissions in the Polish economy.


  
     932     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PRK_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global warming is giving rise to destructive abnormal weather patterns, affecting every part of the world simultaneously and teaching us the serious lesson that no one should turn a blind eye to climate change.
Our Government’s current core policy is designed to cope with the global health crisis and climate change with a far-seeing plan and to provide the people with more stable and improved living conditions while sustainably increasing agricultural production.
Good prospects have also opened up in the agricultural sector with regard to putting fulfilment of this year’s grain production plan on a sound footing by minimizing the disastrous effects of climate change.
With regard to climate change, the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has formulated a plan that includes river improvement, afforestation for erosion control, dyke maintenance and tidal embankment projects across the country.
I believe that our Government’s achievements in dealing with the global health and climate change crises will contribute to the efforts of the international community to recover from COVID-19 and build sustainable socioeconomic resilience.
The coronavirus disease pandemic, climate change, the refugee problem and endless disputes among countries are emerging as burning issues.


  
     933     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PRT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I equally support the priorities chosen — a United Nations 2.0 and an agenda focused on persons — to respond to the pandemic, seek international peace and security, galvanize climate action, achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in the Decade of Action, ensure the centrality of human rights, promote gender equality and address the challenges of digital transformation.
No country, no matter how powerful, can face, on its own or with only a few partners, climate change, pandemics, economic and social crises, terrorism and misinformation and also promote the safe and orderly movement of persons, the protection of the most vulnerable and human rights.
In Lisbon in 2022, Portugal and Kenya will host the second United Nations Ocean Conference, an essential dimension of climate action, and Portugal supports the international recognition of the right to a healthy environment.
We believe that the most pressing concerns of our time, like climate change, pandemics, economic and social crises, wars and insecurity, as well as migration and refugees, only confirm that isolationism, protectionism, unilateralism, intolerance, populism and xenophobia inevitably lead to dead ends.
There is no planet B — for climate or anything else.
Twenty years after 9/11, six years after the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and a year and a half after the beginning of the pandemic, we need effective multilateralism more than ever.


  
     934     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_PRY_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Ladies and gentlemen,
Climate change is linked to the current water crisis affecting our region.
We therefore underline the importance of honouring the international commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in particular those on climate finance, to support the mitigation and adaptation efforts of developing countries, especially those of us most vulnerable to global warming.


  
     935     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_QAT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change remains one of the most critical challenges of our time, as it causes disastrous impacts on all aspects of life for the current and future generations.
We look forward to the upcoming twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will be held in Glasgow in the United Kingdom, being a turning point towards realizing the ambitions of the international community.
In that respect, we note that the State of Qatar has placed climate change at the top of its priorities, and it continues to take the necessary measures to develop climate change-related technologies and clean energy.


  
     936     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ROU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We also need an integrated and innovative approach to respond simultaneously to a whole range of interrelated challenges, such as health, demographic changes, migration, scarce resources, climate change, biodiversity loss, extreme poverty and hunger.
The effects of climate change have no national borders, and the responsibility to effectively address them rests on all of us.
Working with other States and international organizations to respond to climate change is a priority of my current mandate as President of Romania.
The year 2021 should about bring a leap forward in preventing climate change and protecting biodiversity.


  
     937     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_RUS_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Otherwise, it will be difficult to mobilize all States towards reaching global climate goals.


  
     938     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_RWA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

That commitment must put climate change mitigation at the centre of our efforts.
We cannot afford for the result of COP-26 in November to be inconclusive or divisive.
The Secretary-General is right to warn of a possible breakdown in the multilateral system, in the face of the Covid pandemic, worsening conflict, the climate emergency, and chronic poverty.


  
     939     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SAU_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, The Kingdom is aware of the importance of combating the efforts to face the mutual challenge of climate change and its adverse impacts.
Therefore, the Kingdom has launched unique initiatives that are important to the region and the world, most prominent of which are the Saudi Green Initiative, the Green Middle East Initiative, and the Circular Carbon Economy which together will effectively contribute to achieving the global targets in these sectors.


  
     940     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SEN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Building our shared future also means taking care of our planet, in line with the principle of shared but differentiated responsibility given the ravages of global warming.
That will be shored up by the solar electrification project under way for 1,000 villages, in line with the partnership for the Green Climate Fund and the West African Development Bank.
But our countries cannot achieve an energy transition or abandon the polluting practices of industrialized nations without a viable, fair and equitable alternative.


  
     941     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SGP_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today I wish to highlight four key areas that require our urgent attention: public health, climate change, the oceans and the digital revolution.
Secondly, we need a sustained and ambitious global response to address climate change.
The effects of climate change are deeply felt at a local level, but the solution will depend on a collective response at the global level.
For a small island city-State like Singapore, climate change remains a clear and present danger.
The landmark Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded that global temperatures are likely to rise above 1.5°C within the next two decades, and we are likely to see more intense rainfall, flooding and droughts, loss of sea ice and rising sea levels.
The fight against climate change will be a stark litmus test of our ability to manage the global commons through multilateral action.
Singapore has always been a strong advocate of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, from the very beginning.
Last year, even while battling the pandemic, we submitted our enhanced 2030 nationally determined contributions to the Paris Agreement and our longterm low-emissions development strategy for 2050 and beyond.
We are also committed to working with our partners in new areas, including green finance and clean energy solutions, and we look forward to substantive outcomes at the upcoming twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Glasgow.
The oceans sustain our global ecosystem; they are a repository of biodiversity and a buffer for climate change.


  
     942     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SLB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The United Nations is confronted with many challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and sea level rise and peace and security to name a few.
Mr. President,
As a Small Island Developing State, Solomon Islands continues to battle with the incremental effects of climate change and its negative impacts that threaten the livelihoods, security, and well-being of our people.
The Pacific Island countries and territories have identified Climate Change as the ‘single greatest threat’ to our people and to the planet.
We remain deeply concerned that we are falling behind in our commitments under the Paris Agreement.
Already global the temperature has increased above preindustrial level to 1.1 °C.
The most recent Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change delivered the starkest warning yet about the deepening climate emergency.
The IPCC Report further stated that limiting global warming to close to 1.5°C or even 2°C above pre-industrial levels “will be beyond reach” in the next two decades, without immediate, rapid, and large-scale reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
We strongly call on all major greenhouse gas emitting countries to cut emissions and take more ambitious action place the world on a ‘below 1.5°C pathway’.
Sadly, the current trend is driving humanity towards a ‘3°C world’, which we can all agree is not world we wish to bequeath to our future generations.
COP26 in Glasgow to be held in November this year, presents an opportunity for the world to operationalize the Paris Agreement, and conclude negotiations on the Paris Rulebook.
Further support is needed for the Warsaw Mechanism and an Adaptation Fund should serve and support the Paris Agreement.
We recognize the climate-ocean nexus and call on the global community take stronger climate action to protect our oceans.
In this regard, my government supports the ongoing work that is being undertaken by the International Law Commission on the question of sea level rise and sovereignty.
Rights must be respected irrespective of sea level rise.
As we continue to confront the problems and challenges that our world faces ranging from climate change to the deteriorating health of our planet and the COVID-19 pandemic; we must remember, there is more that binds us together as a human race than divides us.


  
     943     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SLE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Sierra Leone associates itself with his call, among other equally important matters, for prioritizing the COVID-19 response, vaccine access and equity, tackling poverty and inequality, the impact of climate change, and promoting gender equality and human rights protection and promotion.
The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted lives and economies, constrained development owing to the repurposing of development finance and the withholding of private capital, escalated the threats of climate change and food insecurity, broadened inequities and injustice, and increased fragilities.
We no longer wish to be seen and spoken about as a nation recovering from problems ranging from civil strife to Ebola and from bad governance and economic gridlock to food and climate insecurity.
The perils of climate change in land degradation, erratic rainfall patterns and rising sea levels and temperatures loom large.
Sierra Leone is on board with all global climate-action commitments and looks forward to participating in the upcoming Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow and the fifteenth Conference of Parties of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity.
We are integrating climate-smart polices and projects into our development priorities.
However, as with other least developed countries, the climate financing gap remains a key challenge to the implementation of our mitigation and adaptation measures.
Accordingly, Sierra Leone joins other least developed countries in calling for a green climate fund to meet the $100 billion target to support the mitigation and adaptation plans of developing countries.
Through that we can create new green jobs, especially for young people and women, encourage sustainable and inclusive communities and build resilience to climate-change shocks.


  
     944     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SMR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The nature of conflicts is evolving due to the growing interconnections between scarce natural resources, climate change, socioeconomic vulnerabilities, disinformation and cyber-attacks.
Mr. President,
The collective fight against climate change represents the gravest emergency of our time.
As the impacts of climate change are becoming more visible, biodiversity loss will also become pervasive and ultimately devastating.
We are witnessing the grave impact of climate change on the Small Island Developing States in the Pacific, but also in other parts of the planet.
We will be able to reach this goal only through the full implementation of the Paris Agreement, but also by promoting important investments in adaptation and resilience.


  
     945     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SOM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, Somalia directly experiences the painful results of global warming.


  
     946     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SRB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, we are increasingly witnessing and experiencing the effects of climate change.
Nevertheless, as stated by dignitaries of some of the largest nations during this General Assembly, there are other pressing issues that all of us need to keep addressing without any delay and in a bold manner, the most urgent of which is climate change.
Serbia has redoubled its efforts to make our country safer and cleaner for its citizens, and by doing so, it is contributing to the fight against climate change and for environmental protection.
We are strongly committed to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on climate change.
We are committed to global efforts and will continue to work actively to meet our obligations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
We have already announced our intention to reduce greenhouse gases by at least 33.3 per cent compared to 1990, and 13.2 per cent compared to 2010, which we are currently incorporating into our energy and climate strategic documents.
Our generation shares the common destiny of the modern world, which is becoming increasingly complex in terms of geopolitics, technology, health and climate.
If anything, the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the issue of climate change, should have taught us to stand together.


  
     947     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SSD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change has already impacted the lives of at least 1 million people across South Sudan.
South Sudan has developed and submitted its second nationally determined contribution (NDC), which lays out the framework of its commitments to the Paris Agreement and its contribution to the global effort to reduce emissions to below 1.5°C, despite the fact that it already has among the lowest carbon emissions.
The NDC not only places South Sudan on a sustainable low- carbon-growth pathway but also develops its resilience against climate-induced shocks and stresses.
South Sudan contributes more than its fair share in reducing global emissions.
Yet it is among the countries that suffer the most from the impact of climate change.
We call upon Member States to aggressively respond to the call for action to further cut emissions if we are to avert a catastrophic situation that will be a defining moment for humankind.
That is in our national interest since we have the natural resources and capacity to enhance climate mitigation and adoption measures.
However, funding those measures is essential so that we join the call for climate financing to be made accessible to developing countries in order to enable us to help the world, while also preventing climate change impacts from reversing our development gains and increasing the vulnerability of our people and country to shocks and stresses.


  
     948     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_STP_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

In addition to the consequences of violent extremism, the world is facing additional challenges as a result of the devastating effects of climate change, which are posing serious obstacles to the achievement of the SDGs, to which we all committed ourselves in this very Hall in 2015.
We therefore commend the United Nations for its leadership role in combating climate change and call on everyone to show greater commitment to that common cause, which, like the COVID-19 pandemic, is of concern to all countries, without exception.
It is evident that global efforts must continue under the auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     949     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SUR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change remains a serious challenge and an existential threat that requires the attention of us all.
In recent months, we have witnessed its worldwide impact in the form of deadly floods, widespread forest fires and significantly increasing global temperatures.
In the case of my country, Suriname, and other countries with low-lying coastal areas, we are committed to fighting climate change because we are particularly vulnerable, even though we have contributed the least to the problem.
Suriname significantly contributes to the mitigation of the effects of climate change.
We are one of the few countries rated carbon-negative in the world.
The time has come to acknowledge the unique challenges faced by high-forest low-deforestation developing countries and to improve and maximize their fair access to climate finance.
As we prepare for the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), in early November this year, in Glasgow, we must bear in mind that noble ideals with strong political commitments do not mean much if not supported with new financial resources.
COP 26 should therefore result in ambitious and actionable commitments.
Suriname calls on developed countries to recommit to the $100 billion pledge to support developing countries, as agreed in the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement.
Amid the climate change challenges, and the COVID-19 pandemic, my country is also confronted with a challenging fiscal choice between servicing an increased sovereign debt or spending more on health, education and the livelihoods of our citizens.


  
     950     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SVK_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Saving our planet means accelerating our response to the climate crisis.
The findings of the recent IPCC report might be shocking.
We must equally strike a deal to prevent global carbon leakage.
The upcoming COP-26 in Glasgow must set the pace for a much swifter adaptation and radical emissions cuts.
Slovakia will reduce our emissions by 55 per cent by 2030 and become climate neutral by 2050, along with the rest of the European Union.
Clean mobility, locally developed and produced greener batteries will decarbonize transport in Slovakia and elsewhere.
The Green Climate Fund must be properly funded and accessible.
Excellencies,
Unless we stop global warming, future generations will suffer.


  
     951     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SVN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Having said that, I would like in my statement to address three main topics: the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, climate change, and peace and security.
Secondly, with regard to climate change, the recent report of International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is alarming.
Let me assure the Assembly that, in its capacity as President of the European Union Council in the run up to and during the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), Slovenia is committed to the objective of a climate-neutral European Union by 2050.
We will do our utmost to contribute to the success of the COP 26 conference in Glasgow.
It is imperative that we move on climate-change mitigation, adaptation and financing in order to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
The IPCC report is in fact a final, urgent call for immediate climate action from us.
My permanent advisory committee on climate change, established two years ago, is an example of good practices.
We regularly discuss a variety of aspects of climate change and recommend the Government or legislative measures to be adopted.
We must commit to achieving climate neutrality through reform and investments in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy, sustainable mobility and circular business models.
Climate change greatly affects water — through both the droughts and floods that we witnessed this summer — and has an impact on the quality of water.
We will continue to raise awareness and understanding of the interlinkages between water and climate change and the importance of water for international peace and security.
Climate change profoundly affects food security.
For the very first time in modern history, a famine in one country — Madagascar — is attributed solely to global warming.
New technologies offer numerous opportunities to mitigate climate change, support sustainable agriculture, introduce smarter mobility, offer better education and improve the effective use of resources, to name just a few activities.


  
     952     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SWE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Excellencies,
The extreme weather events we have witnessed, with forest fires, flooding and heat waves, underline the urgent need to act against climate change.
We must keep the 1.5 degree goal alive.
Lower emissions, adaptation and protection of biodiversity must be our priority.
This year, we need to stand up to the test as we gather at COP26 in Glasgow, COP 15 in Kunming, and prepare to conclude a legal instrument to protect biodiversity in the high seas.
In June, we will host Stockholm+50, which we expect will be a catalyst for necessary transformative actions for a systemic change as with regard to the environment and climate change agenda.
Global hunger, driven by armed conflicts and climate change, is soaring.
Climate change is the defining issue of our time.
In 2017, the Swedish Parliament adopted the most ambitious climate reform in Sweden’s history, aiming at net zero emissions of greenhouse gases by 2045.


  
     953     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SWZ_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
The pandemic has, momentarily, shifted our focus from issues that are perpetually on the global agenda, particularly our quest to respond to the needs of the planet including the mitigation and adaptation to the persisting impact of climate change.
Climate-related impacts continue to overwhelm our economies and remains one of the insistent challenges of the 21st century.
In this view, we reaffirm our resolve to play our part in operationalizing the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) that presents steps taken by the country to develop effective climate change responses, while fast-tracking the implementation of our objectives for sustainable development and poverty eradication.
We look forward to the 26th Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) for the world to re-ignite, re-engage and accelerate climate actions.
Eswatini would again this year continue to urge the United Nations to consider the meaningful participation of Taiwan, especially in the World Health Organisation, International Civil Aviation Authority and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     954     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_SYC_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The past two years have been a stark reminder that the global community has failed to adequately address some of the most pressing issues of our time: effective and equitable access to health-care, glaring inequalities, climate change and environmental degradation, the arms race, endless conflicts, the plight of refugees ... to name but a few.
Furthermore, SIDS continue to be disproportionately affected by what can be best termed as environmental injustice as a result of climate change.
The challenge we face to climate change and our response to it will continue long after we have brought COVID-19 under control.
We are morally obligated to those who have lost their lives to the calamitous climate and biodiversity crises.
In the light of the upcoming COP26, Seychelles calls on the international community, particularly the larger emitters and economies of the G20, to increase their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to a level that meets, if not surpasses the requirements of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report and averts the global catastrophe that threatens all of us.
Mr President, The pandemic and worsening climate crisis have added to the other difficult tasks of the United Nations.


  
     955     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TCD_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

In this regard, Chad reiterates the call made several times by the member countries of the G-5 Sahel to cancel the debt of countries hard hit by terrorism and climate change, as well as by COVID-19 and widespread poverty.
Similarly, the response to the terrorist threat should address issues related to economic development, climate change, the education of young people and access to basic social services by our populations.


  
     956     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TGO_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is the greatest challenge that humankind has faced in recent decades.
The threat to human societies and ecosystems from global warming is growing.
The disastrous effects of climate change on all continents are evident, including melting glaciers, hurricanes, rising sea levels and droughts that fuel fires across entire regions, leaving our peoples deeply vulnerable.
More worryingly, the annual report on the gap between needs and prospects for reducing greenhouse gas emissions indicates that, even if all the current unconditional commitments under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change were implemented, temperatures would still rise by 3.2°C, with even more widespread and destructive climate consequences.
Current collective efforts will therefore have to be multiplied fivefold to reach the 1.5°C emissions reduction target, as recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its special report on Climate Change and Land.
That is why my country encourages Governments, businesses, cities and all financial institutions to join the global Carbon Neutrality Coalition.
We also welcome the fact that, in the run-up to COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland, countries representing more than 65 per cent of global carbon emissions have made ambitious commitments on the issue and are calling on others to join them.


  
     957     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_THA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

To compound this situation, climate-induced catastrophes have also aggravated the ongoing turmoil caused by the pandemic and created tremendous losses, while further disrupting global efforts towards the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Mr. President,
As I mentioned earlier, due to unbalanced growth and development, the world is facing a growing existential threat of natural catastrophes connected with climate change on an unprecedented scale.
But if we continue on our current path, the global temperature change might rise beyond 2° C which would result in even more catastrophic changes.
Thailand is in the process of preparing the National Energy Plan with an aim to achieve carbon neutrality by 2065-2070.
In this regard, Thailand urges developed countries to take lead in significantly reducing in greenhouse gas emissions, and calls on the global community to take collective actions to ensure constructive and concrete outcomes at COP26.
This would boost their capacities and increase their participation in addressing global problems as well as enable them to swiftly adjust to changes, build immunity and better recover from global warming in a sustainable manner.
Equally, the strength of the international community in tackling the global warming crisis will serve as a catalyst for breakthroughs in advanced technology and innovation.


  
     958     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TJK_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Therefore, recognizing the important role of the United Nations in the effective and timely implementation of these goals, we are confident that the Decade of Action to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (2020-2030) will facilitate to find effective ways to address global challenges, including climate change, poverty, gender inequality and funding.
Dear colleagues,
Climate change challenges are also a serious obstacle to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in various countries, including Tajikistan.
We are today on the eve of the 26th session of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change.
We believe that this meeting will significantly contribute to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and accelerating the efforts of the international community in the fight against climate change.
As a result of climate change and unprecedented warming, more than 1,000 of the 13,000 glaciers in Tajikistan’s mountains have completely melted.
Our country ranks 135th in the world in terms of carbon dioxide emissions and produces 96% of its electricity in hydropower plants.
As the leader of such a country, I have made concrete proposals at international conferences on several occasions to find solutions to the problems associated with climate change.
In this regard, as a member of the founding group of the World Water and Climate Coalition, I proposed at its first high-level meeting to declare the years of 2025 as the International Year for Preservation of Glaciers.
It is my firm belief that this initiative will help to attract more attention of the world community to the water and climate issues and the melting of glaciers.
Mr Chairman,
Tajikistan is recognized as an initiator and lead country and contributes to the process of promoting water and climate issues in the Global Development Agenda and submitting relevant UN resolutions on these issues.
Taking this opportunity, I reaffirm my country’s readiness to advance water and climate issues at all levels, especially in cooperation with the United Nations.


  
     959     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TLS_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

“Climate change continues to be at the top of our agenda.
We are experiencing particular hardships caused by the impact of climate change while combating the COVID-19 pandemic.
Countries in special situations, including Timor-Leste, are often forced to deal with the severe weather events that result from climate change, such as floods, landslides, droughts, sea-level rise and global warming, which ultimately jeopardize our existence and pose a threat to humankind and human rights.
In reaffirming our action in these areas, I also recently appointed a special envoy and roving ambassador to ensure that Timor-Leste is represented and our voice heard at international discussions and negotiations on issues related to climate change.
“As we prepare for the twenty sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Glasgow this year, Timor-Leste is pleased with the preparatory process under way and looks forward to a constructive outcome for the Conference in generating international cooperation on scaling up global efforts to fulfil our obligations under the Paris Agreement, so that we can protect our planet for current and future generations based on common but differentiated responsibilities.
Many of them have high levels of external dependency and exposure and low levels of resilience to enable them to recover from socioeconomic shocks, problems that are compounded by the effects of climate change and have made achieving the SDGs even more challenging.


  
     960     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TON_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Tonga along with other leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum, at its Fifty-First Forum Leaders’ meeting, recently held on 6 August 2021, once again reaffirm that Climate Change is the single greatest threat facing the Blue Pacific while recommitting to the goals enshrined in the Paris Agreement.
Tonga is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change due to geographical and economic factors.
It has been ranked by the World Risk Report 2017 as the second most at-risk country in the world to natural disasters such as cyclones, flooding and sea level rise.
While Tonga contributes to a negligible amount to global greenhouse gas emissions, we are nonetheless ambitious in supporting the goal of limiting global warming through the submission of our second Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) in 2020 in line with the timeline agreed to under the Paris Agreement.
Tonga also launched the Tonga Energy Efficiency Master Plan (TEEMP for 2020-2030) and the National Certificate on Sustainable Energy (NCSE) which is a clear testament of our determination to achieving a sustainable energy future while mitigating the effects of climate change.
The discussions on this very critical and timely topic for Tonga and the Pacific brought to the fore the need for accelerated actions to slow the rate of increase in sea level rise.
Speaking of sea-level rise, our Pacific Islands Forum leaders continue to note with grave concern the threat posed by sea level rise to our Blue Pacific and are committed to ensuring that maritime zones of Pacific Member States are delineated in accordance with the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) which should not be challenged or reduced due to climate change related sea level rise.
At their Fifty-First meeting on 6 August 2021, the Pacific Islands Forum leaders supported the development of a draft Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the face of Climate Change-related Sea-level rise.
The Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) provides the most up-to-date physical understanding of the climate system and climate change...”
(AR6 Climate Change 2021, IPCC Report) for which it made a clarion call in their comprehensive assessment report on the Ocean and the Cryosphere for urgent action to prioritize adaptation and mitigation measures.
The 2021 IPCC Report alluded to “global mean sea level keeps rising even in the lowest scenarios” of low emissions.
However, should countries fail to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, presenting a high emissions scenario, it is highly likely that this will result in an increase on average of sea level five times that in low emissions, and such is not an option specifically for Tonga and low-lying small island States in the Pacific and the rest of the world.
The Pacific region, because of its peculiar setting of low-lying small island States and atoll, is unfortunately experiencing sea level rise at a faster and in more extensive form than others, to which are most vulnerable to sea level rise.
Mr. President,
Achieving the crucial goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C is a moral obligation of each country, whereby the aggregated individual country NDC efforts would help in reducing national emissions while adapting to the impacts of climate change.
Thus, Tonga calls on major emitters around the globe to urgently commit to stronger climate action through robust strategies developed to achieving a net zero carbon by 2050.
The commitments already made by leading countries to curb greenhouse gas emissions are most welcome and held in high regard.
We look forward to participating in the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow, United Kingdom, from 31 October to 12 November 2021 with the view to accelerating actions towards achieving goals of the Paris Agreement.
The declining health of the oceans due to the considerable amount of living coral lost, overfishing, growing number of ocean acidification and insurmountable problem of marine plastic pollution poses great risks to our food security, livelihoods, and the environment, for which is deeply felt in this way by low-lying coastal States and small island developing States such as Tonga.


  
     961     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TTO_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The evidence is irrefutable that human induced climate change, threatens the very survival of humankind.
Yet greenhouse gas emissions are at record levels, and the devastating impacts of climate change continue to worsen, landing on the doorsteps of Small Island Developing States, sitting as they are, on the frontline of this crisis.
It is therefore Mr. President, our moral responsibility to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement through credible, concrete, enhanced commitments.
The commitment made by developed countries to mobilize $100 billion annually to support mitigation and adaptation in developing countries must be met.
Notwithstanding Trinidad and Tobago’s miniscule contribution to global emissions, we have committed in our Nationally Determined Contribution to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 30 per cent in the public transportation sector, and to a cumulative decrease of 15 per cent in the other main carbon emitting sectors by 2030.
Consequently, these commitments would remove over 100 million tonnes of carbon dioxide from our atmosphere; placing us among the most ambitious in our region.
We hope that COP 26 will agree to complete the outstanding issues and to fully operationalise the Paris Agreement on a scale that will support cooperation on mitigation, adaptation and compliance.
That approach would be in keeping with the calls for more ambitious commitments to ensure that the 1.5°C target remains within our reach.
Mr. President,
Our acute susceptibility to climate change stems from our inherently complex structural vulnerabilities as Small Island Developing States that trap us in a mire of compounding risks; sentencing us to a cyclical struggle of recovery, rebuilding and redevelopment.


  
     962     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TUN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the necessity of developing policies based on solidarity
and justice so that when faced with such crises, we can be more resilient and capable of building and finding solutions for the millions who have slipped into extreme poverty, the millions of children who no longer have access to education, the millions of displaced and refugees and the millions threatened by starvation, malnutrition, climate change and conflict.
We stress the importance of concerted international and regional efforts to combat terrorism and violent extremism, adopt a comprehensive approach to the issue of migration, fight climate change and its multidimensional repercussions, bridge the digital and development divide, transfer technology and develop educated societies.


  
     963     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TUR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The problems, which we may classify under headings such as climate change, air pollution, water and food security and loss of biodiversity, have reached such an extreme that it is steering the future of humankind into uncertainty.
Among those topics, we should focus in particular on climate change.
Greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, which have increased by 50 per cent as compared to the pre-industrial period, literally raise the world’s temperature.
Indeed, for some time now, disasters have been occurring all over the world due to an increase of 1.1°C as compared to the pre-industrial period.
The greatest impact of climate change will be observed on the populations living in the centres of large cities.
It is not possible to handle the ramifications of climate change with the existing infrastructure.
The continued rise in global temperatures and the concomitant expectations for more intense rainfalls, must steer us all towards new pursuits.
For example, it has become mandatory for urban planning to take into account the impacts of climate change.
Another danger awaiting our world is that forests, being among the most important carbon sinks, are now facing extinction due to land use, on the one hand, and fires on the other.
Another area affected by the increase in temperature is our seas.
Expanding water and melting glaciers have raised sea levels by 20 centimetres over the past
century.
If effective measures are not taken and greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, sea levels are expected to rise by more than one metre by the end of the century.
I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the fact that all these problems are due to an increase of only a 1.1 °C increase in temperature.
Consider what would happen if that increase were to hit 1.5°C, 2°C or more.
After all these developments, as the States of the world, we came together in 2015 to fight climate change and agreed on the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the aim of which is to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C by the middle of the century.
For that reason, first and foremost, countries historically responsible for the emergence of problems that led to climate change, to own up to that responsibility.
It may be possible to prevent the coronavirus pandemic with the vaccines we have developed, but it is out of question to find such a laboratory-manufactured solution to climate change.
For that reason and to address climate change, we take every opportunity to repeat our motto — “the world is bigger than five”.
The countries that have done the most damage to nature, our atmosphere, our water, our soil and the Earth, and those that have wildly exploited natural resources, should also make the greatest contribution to the fight against climate change.
Climate change will treat humankind equally.
We are among the first countries to have signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We plan to present the Paris Agreement on Climate Change for approval to our Parliament next month within the framework of Intended Nationally Determined Contribution and in conformity with the positive steps that will be taken.
Before the United Nations Climate Change Conference, to be held in Glasgow, we envisage completing the ratification phase of the Agreement, which seeks carbon neutrality targets.
Of course, we have also taken other measures to combat climate change.
We increased our carbon sink areas by increasing our forest assets from 20.8 million hectares to approximately 23 million hectares.
Turkey is not indifferent to any global problem, crisis or call and will also do its part on climate change and environmental protection.


  
     964     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TUV_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Tuvalu, with an average land elevation of no more than two meters above sea level, is extremely vulnerable to climate change, sea level rise, and natural disasters.
With forced displacement due to climate change and sea level rise, what shall we do and where should we go?
Consequently, these same difficult questions will be asked by those of us who remain ignorant of climate change.
The international community must now consider solutions to protect the rights of people affected by the impacts of climate change and to avoid chaotic responses to uncontrolled mass climate displacement.
In this regard, Tuvalu is spearheading a new initiative that will be advanced by likeminded countries to advance efforts towards protecting the statehood of small atoll island nations facing existential threats from sea level rise and, preserving the sovereignty, rights and heritage of affected nations and their populations.
On the domestic front, we have streamlined building resilience to climate change, natural disasters, and external shocks into our 10 year national sustainable development strategy, namely, Te Kete 2021-2030.
We have continued to enhance adaptation to climate change and sea level rise through the construction of raised reclamation and coastal protection systems and adopting new agricultural systems to respond to climate change and sea level rise.
We are grateful for the assistance provided through the Green Climate Fund (GCF), Global Environment Facility (GEF), World Bank, Asian Development Bank, and other development partners to enhance our resilience to climate change.
However, we must scale up this support to meet our growing adaptation needs, particularly our major development programmes such as land reclamation and land elevation, to strengthen our resilience to the slow onset of sea level rise which could potentially erase our God-given land from the face of the Earth.
Mr. President,
The cost of continuous rebuilding after every tropical cyclone and adapting to increasing sea levels leaves little fiscal space for investment in the SDGs.
Our global climate actions must focus on the root causes of climate change to break this cycle of costly and continuous rebuilding.
The one obvious sustainable solution is to stop and reverse increasing global temperatures.
To this end, the Kainaki II Declaration on Climate Change endorsed by Pacific Leaders in Tuvalu in 2019 calls for updated NDCs to keep the 1.5°C target, a global climate finance target of $100 billion and the replenishment of the Green Climate Fund to support urgent adaptation needs and an end to inefficient and harmful fossil fuel subsidies including the phase out of coal.
Mr. President,
As we move closer to COP26, we make the same call on developed countries and major economies to demonstrate leadership.
We need your commitment to fulfil the financial promises made in the Paris Agreement, including aligning global financial flows to be consistent with the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
The recent IPCC report on the Climate warns that we are inching closer to the point of no return.
COP26 will be a make-or-break COP.
To our developed countries, major economies, and emerging economies, we urge you to use your leadership roles to make COP26 a success.
Climate change is already restricting our capacity to achieve sustainable development goals.
We have the various international frameworks stemming from the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Istanbul Plan of Action for LDCs, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Paris Agreement.
In terms of climate change, we applaud the appointment of the UNSG Special Adviser on Climate Change.
And we look forward to the streamlining of climate change and security in the work of various UN bodies to build a UN system that is responsive to the needs of those most vulnerable to climate change.
We look forward to the implementation of the outcomes of the UN Food Systems Summit to complement and scale up our existing food security systems and programs to adapt better to climate change and support progress on the SDGs.
Mr. President,
As you may realize, I have been talking mainly about climate change.
Rather, it is because for us, climate change is the single greatest threat to the lives, prosperity, and human security of our people.
Tuvalu is unable to build resilience with hope, as noted in the theme of this 76th Session of the General Assembly, if climate change is allowed to continue on its current trajectory.
The Tuvalu 2021 Independence Day theme, “Unity in Word and Deed,” is a message I bring as a call to all members of the United Nations, to embrace our shared differences and unite in action to address climate change and its rampage on humankind.


  
     965     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_TZA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to note the Secretary-General’s report on Our Common Agenda, which raises key issues of common concern, such as gender equality, climate change and youth development.
The challenges of climate change are really affecting livelihoods and peace and security and have resulted in the forced displacement of some of our people.
The Government of Tanzania spends between 2 and 3 per cent of our gross domestic product on mitigation and on building community resilience, and that is a lot in a country that is still grappling with poverty, along with the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, which itself has compromised our capacity to respond to the harmful impact of climate change.
Our actions today will therefore determine the future of our planet in terms of climate change.
In that regard, I call for a transparent modality for financial disbursement and emphasize that developed countries should fulfil their commitment to contributing $100 billion annually by 2025 so as to facilitate the implementation of the Paris Agreement.


  
     966     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_UGA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We believe that by working together, we can better respond to global crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change and their consequences.
However, whereas the 2030 Agenda is strongly anchored on environmental integrity and sustainability, there are increasing effects of climate change reducing Uganda’s natural capital.
Therefore, the 3rd National development Plan sets out ambitious climate actions through the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
Mr. President,
Setting our path towards the full realization of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement requires that we urgently address climate change, one of the greatest challenges to humanity.
We continue to witness the enormous loss of lives and property due to climate change-related disasters globally.
All of us are susceptible to these climate change disasters.
We, therefore, stress the need to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty through bold multilateral actions by all.
Uganda, despite being a less contributor to climate change, is taking deliberate and targeted actions to address climate change through investments in climate adaptation and mitigation measures such as increasing access and consumption of clean energy to enhance production, and increasing forest and wetland cover, among others in line with our ambitious Nationally, Determined Contributions.
However, mobilization of means of implementation for climate change remains crucial as urgent action is required to significantly reduce emissions, adapt to the adverse effects and reduce the impacts of climate change.
We commend the Green Climate Fund for its commitment to a 50:50 balance between mitigation and adaptation in its portfolio and ensure that at least 50 per cent of adaptation funding goes to particularly vulnerable countries, including LDCs, SIDS (Small Island Developing States) and African States.
In this context, Uganda reiterates its commitment to support bold action proposals at the 26th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change scheduled in the United Kingdom from November 112, 2021, in the areas of mitigation, adaptation and finance.
We, therefore, call on the developed Countries to fulfil their financial commitment in line with the Paris Agreement to provide 100 billion US Dollars annually by 2020 to assist developing Country Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation with a concrete roadmap.
Uganda, like other Least Developed Countries, has continued to face numerous challenges during IPoA implementation that include, among other things: limited productive capacities, limited funding, insufficient physical infrastructure, commodity price volatility, climate change, biodiversity loss and disasters.
In our view, this Programme should contain robust means of implementation to support the LDCs inadequately addressing the existing structural constraints, particularly limited productive capacities, inadequate funding, high debt level, commodity price volatility, as well as emerging challenges like climate change, biodiversity loss and disasters.


  
     967     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_UKR_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The President of the seventy-sixth Assembly has spoken at length about climate change and the protection of the environment and nature on the planet (see A/76/PV.3).
And in the souls of Crimeans, the biggest problem is not global warming, but rather global devastation.
We never promised to stop climate change.
We promised to intensify our cooperation to overcome climate change.


  
     968     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_USA_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Will we meet the threat of the challenging climate we are all already feeling ravaging every part of our world with extreme weather?
Or will we suffer the merciless march of ever worsening droughts and floods, more intense fires and hurricanes, longer heat waves and rising seas?
Instead of continuing to fight the wars of the past, we are fixing our eyes on devoting our resources to the challenges that hold the keys to our collective future: ending this pandemic, addressing the climate crisis, managing the shifts in global power dynamics, shaping the rules of the world on vital issues like trade, cyberactivity and emerging technologies, and facing the threat of terrorism as it stands today.
We elevated the Quad partnership among Australia, India, Japan and the United States so as to take on challenges ranging from health security to climate to emerging technologies.
We rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement, and we are running to retake a seat in the Human Rights Council next year at the United Nations.
This year has also brought widespread death and devastation from the borderless climate crisis.
To keep within our reach the vital goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C, every nation needs to bring its highest possible ambitions to the table when we meet in Glasgow for the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
In April, I announced the United States ambitious new goal under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the United States by 50 to 52 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030, as we work towards achieving the clean energy economy with net-zero emissions by 2050.
My Administration is working closely with our Congress to make critical investments in green infrastructure and electric vehicles that will help us lock in progress at home towards our climate goals.
The best part is that making those ambitious investments is not just good climate policy.
In April, I announced that the United States would double its public international financing to help developing nations tackle the climate crisis.
That will make the United States a leader in public climate finance and, with our added support together with increased private capital from other donors, we will be able to meet the goal of mobilizing $100 billion to support climate action in developing nations.
Otherwise, we will all suffer the consequences of our failure if we do not come together to address urgent threats like COVID-19 and climate change or enduring threats like nuclear proliferation.
We must choose to do more than we think we can do alone so that we accomplish what we must, together: ending this pandemic and making sure we are better prepared for the next one; staving off climate change and increasing our resilience to the impacts we already are seeing; ensuring a future where technologies are a vital tool to solving human challenges and empowering human potential, not a source of greater strife and repression.
We will lead on all the greatest challenges of our time, from COVID-19 to climate, peace and security, human dignity and human rights.


  
     969     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_UZB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Transnational threats to peace, security and sustainable development are worsening, climate change is intensifying, mass migration flows are increasing and traditional values are being lost.
Colleagues,
Uzbekistan pays serious attention to the issues of combating climate change, protecting the environment and preserving biodiversity.
We are determined to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and are taking concrete measures to switch to renewable energy sources.


  
     970     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_VAT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are compelled to strengthen our ambition, since we are presently experiencing the effects of decades of inaction in terms of the extreme flooding, drought, wildfires, melting glaciers, receding shorelines, malnutrition and respiratory diseases that rising temperatures are precipitating.
Mr. President,
10	26th Session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
Pope Francis considers one of the most serious causes for concern in today’s world to be the “crisis of human relationships” flowing from a way of life dominated by selfishness and by the culture of waste, where human values and the related transcendent dignity of the person are often trampled.11 This “anthropological crisis” is not a philosophical or academic dispute, but a crisis with enormous practical consequences for human rights.


  
     971     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_VCT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Surely, the world will benefit from Taiwan’s inclusion in global bodes such as the World Health Assembly, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and INTERPOL.
Concerted, multi-lateral cooperation on global matters such as health, climate change, civil aviation, crime, and so forth requires all hands-on deck, metaphorically speaking.
No serious person who objectively examines the scientific data can but conclude that climate change is an existential threat to humanity, and especially to Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and countries, such as in West Africa and the Sahel region, which are being swept into seemingly unending natural disasters as a consequence of desertification and extreme land degradation.
Science, the real world, and the Paris Accord have pointed to alternative pathways for humanity but the political will and requisite resources from the major emitters to address the grave challenge of climate change have not gone much beyond pious mouthings and marginal tinkering.
St. Vincent and the Grenadines is hoping for the best at the Conference of Parties (COP) in Glasgow in November 2021, but we fear the worst — more procrastination and the ducking of serious responsibility by the major emitters.


  
     972     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_VEN_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

We stated in the organizations responsible for climate change that a practical, verifiable response is urgently needed for action against greenhouse gas emissions, global warming of the oceans and the environment and all climate change-related events and disasters.
Such events compel us to demand that powerful Governments take efficient and effective action to reduce global warming and greenhouse gas emissions and give hope to the world in the face of a truly worrisome and tragic situation for many people on planet Earth.


  
     973     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_VNM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

The pandemic has sounded a warning bell of the shocking destruction that results from such non-traditional security challenges as disease or climate change if they are not addressed in a timely and decisive manner.
Fourthly, cooperation in mitigating and preventing the dire impacts of climate change has become more crucial than ever before.
Harsh weather conditions, sea-level rise, environmental pollution and biodiversity degradation are the cumulative consequences of decades of humankind’s reckless quest for development.
These challenges are pushing us to act promptly to safeguard our planet and realize the internationally agreed threshold of 1°5C.
As we are heading towards the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we need to make every effort to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, and developed countries should take the lead on this.
Moreover, developing countries should receive further assistance in financing, technology transfer and capacity-building, so as to reduce emissions and enhance disaster prevention and mitigation in ways that foster the transition towards a green and circular economy.


  
     974     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_VUT_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

There are increasingly evident effects of climate change, including record- breaking wildfires, flooding and more extreme temperatures.
The latest IPCC report provides new estimates of the chances of crossing the global warming level of 1.5°C in the next decades.
Unless there are immediate, rapid and large-scale reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, limiting warming to near 1.5°C will be beyond reach.
For us and other small island developing states especially, our biggest threats are global — most notably climate change, the management of our oceans and of course the COVID-19 pandemic.
This includes the COVID-19 pandemic, economic challenges, the intensifying climate crisis facing Pacific Island Countries and intensification of geopolitical competition in the Pacific region.


  
     975     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_WSM_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

COVID-19 and its constant mutations threatening lives; the looming existential threat from the climate crisis; the accelerated loss of biodiversity; the erosion of human rights; worsening conflicts; rising discrimination and hatred; the abuse of information and new technologies are but a few of the mammoth tasks that lie ahead of us.
Excellencies,
There is no greater challenge confronting the global community now than that of climate change.
The big polluters and emitters need to demonstrate more commitment and leadership.
The latest report on climate change from the IPCC shows that global greenhouse gas emissions must be halved in the next decade, and reach net zero emissions by mid-century, if the promise of 1.5°C is to remain within reach.
Efforts to drive down global emissions such as investing in clean and affordable energy; moving towards green resilient economies; tackling deforestation; ending coal power and focusing all efforts to protect nature must take precedence.
Such solutions must be complemented by ensuring climate finance for frontline countries, and utilizing the advance scientific knowledge and superior technology available.
Samoa has submitted its Second Nationally Determined Contribution with increased ambition nuanced in specific emissions reduction targets.
We reiterate the call on all parties to commit to updated and more ambitious NDCs in order to meet the Paris Agreement promise.
Can we avoid a climate catastrophe in our children’s lifetime?
Excellencies,
The ocean surrounds, protects and provides for us ocean states’.
Tied explicitly to our need for climate action is our custodianship of the world’s oceans.
A new 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific continent will reinforce the prioritization of ocean and climate change considerations in all policies and plans.
Despite the challenges, we remain engaged in the Convention on the Biological Diversity COP15 process.
Together with the UNFCCC COP26, 2021 is a critical year for aligning action to tackle the climate emergency, and addressing the threat posed by biodiversity loss.
Securing our maritime zones against the threat of climate change-related sea-level rise, and preserving our existing rights and entitlements stemming from maritime zones, is of fundamental importance to our Pacific region.
Therefore, the Leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum at their 51st meeting this year, endorsed the Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the face of Climate-Change Related Sea-Level Rise.
Excellencies,
The Global food system is at a critical stage made worse by the COVID-19 pandemic and onslaught of climate change.
COVID19 and climate change have reversed hard fought development gains.
However, we must persist in our efforts to meet the SDGs as they provide the best hope in our fight against the pandemic and the threat of the climate crisis.
Structural factors, including their size, remoteness, and exposure to climate risks and natural disasters impact socioeconomic outcomes and their ability to achieve the SDGs.


  
     976     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ZAF_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr President,
Climate change is an existential crisis for the entire world, yet poor countries are particularly vulnerable.
Although we bear the least responsibility for causing climate change, African countries are among those that carry the greatest cost.
For the forthcoming COP26 in Glasgow to respond adequately to the crisis we face, we need to see greater ambition and progress on mitigation, adaptation and the means of implementation.
COP26 must therefore launch a formal programme of work on the implementation of the Global Goal on Adaptation.
We have to address climate change, maintain peace and security, and protect society’s most vulnerable.


  
     977     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ZMB_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Given the numerous global concerns, including pandemics, climate change and illegal human migration, it is imperative that we adapt to those effects of globalization by fostering key partnerships and deepening integration at all levels.
Like many other developing countries, Zambia calls for closer cooperation and support in terms of capacity to adopt better, safer, climate-change sensitive and modern methods of increased production and productivity.
To address that as well as other important issues concerning environmental sustainability, it became important for us to establish that new Ministry, which will be crucial to build our ability to implement climate-positive actions in our country.


  
     978     
   
FILE: UNGA76_2021_ZWE_76_2021_CLIMATE.txt
  

Green energy is an enabler for building back better and is crucial in the direct achievement of SDGs, while playing a key role in mitigating climate change.
As we do so, let us link economic growth with the accelerated transition to net-zero emission for a climate-resilient future.
My country and parts of the Southern African region continue to experience the devastating impacts of climate change, ranging from cyclone-induced floods, recurrent droughts and shorter rain seasons, hotter summers and colder winters.
This is in spite of the fact that our Continent is the least polluter.
COP26 in Glasgow must therefore be about action and the fulfilment of decisions of the past.
In addition, concrete financial support is essential to combat climate change beyond mere rhetoric.
Climate change and resultant erratic weather patterns, growing populations, coupled with the effects of the pandemic on food supply chains, demand a shift from our traditional food production, processing, distribution and consumption systems.
The United Nations Food Systems Summit provides a welcome platform for new actions, innovative solutions and plans to deliver progress across all of the SDGs and the Paris Agreement.
Higher agriculture production and productivity, through improved land and water utilization as well as the adoption of climate smart agriculture is being promoted.


  
     979     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_AGO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world faces persistent and cyclical challenges, which have been exacerbated in recent years by the international health situation brought about by the coronavirus disease pandemic, the emergence of growing threats to the economy, peace and global security, and the impacts of climate change.
It has approved a national strategy on climate change and environmental education and plans to achieve the target of 70 per cent energy from non-polluting sources by 2025, favouring clean hydroelectric and solar energy.


  
     980     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ALB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

If committing to peace and security, to development and prosperity, to upholding international law and respecting human rights or to engaging in genuine efforts to mitigate climate change is repeating each other, then we are doing the right thing.
Global warming will not distinguish between North and South, and the rise of the sea level will not stop at any shore.


  
     981     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_AND_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate emergency is being felt in the form of heat waves, wildfires, water shortages and extreme phenomena that lead to catastrophes.
The planet’s triple crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution affects everyone.
We now have the last opportunity effectively and forcefully to address the climate crisis, which is the most global and important challenge we are facing.
Unfortunately, climate change is not the only transnational challenge besetting us.
Andorra is a high mountain region and therefore particularly vulnerable to climate change.
We were one of the first parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to submit a national contribution in 2015, and to update it in 2020, with a view to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.
The Consell General— our Parliament — unanimously approved the Declaration of a State of Climate Emergency and the Law on Promoting Energy Transition and on Climate Change.
We have pioneered in introducing a green tax and established a carbon price of €30 per ton, which will lead us towards more sustainable mobility.
Mountain regions are of vital importance in natural systems, with their water cycles, influence on the climate, natural resources and biodiversity.
That message has been understood, and Andorra fully supports the road map, which urges us to intensify action to strengthen and coordinate the global health architecture, address the climate emergency, renew solidarity among peoples, provide space for youth, and encourage a new social contract on human fights and an approach to global commons.


  
     982     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ARE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is the result of a growing number of crises and new conflict hotspots around the world, together with a dangerous escalation in the activities of armed groups while people around the world are suffering immensely from food and climate crises.
There is no clearer example of that than the implications of climate change.
People around the world are exposed to devastating floods, heat waves and drought, all of which exacerbate humanitarian crises and security threats, especially in areas most vulnerable to climate change.
We must therefore forge partnerships, promote joint action and commit to supporting climate action by adopting the renewable energy agenda, providing adequate funding for climate action and supporting developing countries in building resilient communities.
In that regard, we must take advantage of available opportunities to create practical, rational and thoughtful solutions to the climate crisis, including during the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in the sisterly Arab Republic of Egypt in November.
While my country prepares to host the twenty-eighth session next year, we are working to build partnerships, ensure inclusivity and focus on areas in which we can achieve meaningful results to address the phenomenon of climate change.
Furthermore, focusing on climate change will relieve the food crisis around the world.
The Agricultural Innovation Mission for Climate, launched by the United Arab Emirates in cooperation with the United States, aims to improve food production and reduce hunger levels around the world.


  
     983     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ARG_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are ramping up production to provide the world with clean energies ,and others that, like natural gas, will enable us to reduce carbon emissions during the transition.
We hold large reserves of lithium and the potential to develop solar and wind energy, as well as low- and zero-emission hydrogen.
Urgent issues, such as climate change, biodiversity and plastic pollution, should mobilize our efforts in the hope that we can build a broad consensus to ensure the preservation of the planet and humankind.
We are not all equally responsible for the climate crisis.
Neither Latin America and the Caribbean nor Africa are at the forefront of carbon emissions.


  
     984     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ATG_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

That observation is also strongly pertinent to the issue of climate change, which poses an existential threat to small island States and countries with low- lying coastlines.
We will all recall that, last December, due to a veto by one of the five permanent members, the Security Council had to reject a draft resolution (S/2021/990) framing the problem of climate change
as a threat to international peace and security (see S/PV.8926).
Climate change remains the single greatest common threat to all humankind, and more so for small island developing States (SIDS), which lack the financial resources to adapt to the mortal shocks and to rebuild in their aftermath.
SIDS have a legitimate and urgent concern, for although collectively we contribute the least to carbon dioxide emissions — a mere 0.2 per cent — we are the greatest victims, not only because of unattended loss and damage to our lives and livelihoods, but also because the very existence of our countries is fatally endangered.
The effects of global warming are universal.
They reach every country, but it is vital that we all understand that, inasmuch as global warming is universal, its damaging effects are not the same.
I have no choice but to fight unrelentingly for climate justice, and that is precisely what I shall do.
It is the draft resolution being sought by Vanuatu from the Assembly in the coming months to request the International Court of Justice to give an advisory opinion that will clarify the legal obligations of States to protect human rights and environments from climate change.
If our nations are indeed gravely concerned about the ravages of climate change, which has spared no country, they will support Vanuatu’s request.
We are three small island States that have been buffeted and battered by the effects of climate change.
On the eve of the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP), held in Glasgow last year, we launched the Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law.
In that connection, it will seek an opinion from the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea regarding the binding obligations of its member States to mitigate the effects of their greenhouse gas emissions or to pay for the loss and damage they cause.
The polluter must pay.
Billions have been pledged in climate finance and not delivered.
The stage now seems set for this year’s COP27 to fail, despite the genuine efforts of some industrialized nations to address the grave concerns of the majority of the world’s people to turn climate change into climate action.
The Group of 20, meeting on 31 August, failed to produce a joint statement on climate change, sending an ominous signal that, yet again, the meeting of the COP in November will be long on words but very short on deeds.
At COP26 in Glasgow last year, world leaders acknowledged that their pledges to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions have not met the previously agreed goal of pursuing efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C.
And that is despite the fact that, as Secretary-General Guterres has observed, we are in a climate emergency that is literally setting our planet on fire.
In other words, they are burning down the planet.
And yet, year after year, small island States bear the overwhelming burden of climate change’s catastrophic effects, including persistent destruction, the repeated costs of rebuilding and huge debts to finance resilience.
We insist that those States most responsible for this dire situation respect their obligations to stop global warming and to provide compensation to its victims.
We will engage fully and constructively at COP27.
We will also use all means necessary to pursue the objectives of the Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law and we invite all countries whose peoples, lives and livelihoods are at great risk, to join us.
While I have focused my statement so far on the damaging effects of climate change on SIDS, let it not be believed that the industrialized nations, the rich and the powerful, are immune.
In this year alone, temperatures rose above 40°C in Britain, Spain, France and Portugal.
Winter temperatures in the southern hemisphere rose above 45°C in South America, while temperatures in some parts of Antarctica were almost 40°C higher than average.
Even if some of the Governments of the industrialized nations remain reluctant to curb greenhouse gas emissions for the sake of the most vulnerable globally, they should be motivated by the perils for their own people.
A global, all-of-society response is required to effectively combat climate change.
I therefore plead with all Governments to act on the evidence and to do all in their power to curb greenhouse gas emissions to stop climate change.
A consequence of the disasters spawned by climate change and the locked door to concessional financing for many SIDS is high, unsustainable debt.
We did not cause climate change.
Interlocked with the severe challenges of the conflict are climate change, the lingering economic effects of COVID-19, growing economic inequality between nations, high debt burdens without relief and persistent poverty.


  
     985     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_AUS_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The alarm bells of climate change are growing louder, including in my own country.
Among the first acts of the new Australian Government has been to submit our ambitious nationally determined contribution to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and we have just passed legislation that makes those targets law.
Our climate policies mean that within this decade, 83 per cent of Australia’s energy supply will be renewable.
And while we are playing our part to reduce our own emissions, we are working in our region to support Pacific countries, which have the most to lose from the changing climate.
Nothing is more central to the security and economies of the Pacific than climate change.
As Pacific leaders themselves put it plainly in the first article of the 2018 Pacific Island Forum’s Boe Declaration on Regional Security, we reaffirm that climate change remains the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and well-being of the peoples of the Pacific and our commitment to progressing the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     986     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_AUT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are living in an era of transformation, with the COVID-19 pandemic, global food and energy shortages, the soaring rise in the cost of living, rapid technological change, climate change and the prospect of a very bumpy road ahead of us as far as the world economy is concerned.


  
     987     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BDI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The same is true in other parts of the world — as has been noted, terrorism has no borders and climate change, which causes famine, has no limits.
Furthermore, Burundi is learning about climate change resilience, not only through the practice of hill irrigation but also through soil protection efforts, such as the drawing of contour lines and generalized reforestation, under the government project entitled “Ewe Burundi urambaye”, or “Covering Burundi”.


  
     988     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BEL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is this spirit, this can-do mentality, that we will take to twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
This year, along with many other countries, Belgium again suffered the effects of climate change and global warming, with persistent drought that endangered drinking water and destroyed crops.
War in Europe should not make us look away from the big challenges of our time — first and foremost, climate change.


  
     989     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BEN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is why it is more than ever time to pursue our joint efforts to deal appropriately with the problem of climate change, which poses a real existential threat for Benin, due to the combined effects of desertification in the north, coastal erosion and the ongoing salinization of fresh water in the south, and the increasingly accentuated disruption of the cycle of the seasons throughout the national territory.
In that context, Benin has great hopes for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will take place in November in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, and calls on the entire community of nations to hold fruitful discussions and achieve results that are commensurate with the stakes before and the restoration of hope.


  
     990     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BFA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

While the world is gradually recovering from the coronavirus disease pandemic, other scourges — such as terrorism, intra- and inter-State conflicts and the humanitarian and food security crises they engender, along with climate change and its perverse effects — continue to blight daily life across the world.
They include primarily peace and security, democracy and sustainable development, climate change and environment and health and education.
Certain issues have recurred on the General Assembly’s plenary agenda for several years now, including Palestine, the Western Sahara, debt, climate change, the embargo on Cuba, the war in Ukraine and Security Council reform.


  
     991     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BGD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our planet Earth today is plagued by multiple complex and multidimensional challenges, such as climate change, violence and conflict, and the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.
We are working to transform Bangladesh into a knowledge-based developed country by 2041 and building a prosperous and climate-resilient delta by 2100.
The impact of climate change is one of the biggest threats to humankind.
In Bangladesh, we have led many transformative measures to tackle the perilous impacts of climate change, consistent with the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
During our presidency of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, we launched the Mujib Climate Prosperity Plan, which is aimed at putting Bangladesh on a sustainable trajectory from vulnerability to resilience and climate prosperity.
Our national plans and policies on climate change and natural disaster have been made gender sensitive.
I call on world leaders to promote inclusive climate actions.
We are interested in looking for transformative solutions to alleviate poverty, mitigate the adverse effects of climate change, and prevent conflicts and the economic, energy and fuel crises that the world is grappling with now.


  
     992     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BGR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are living in unprecedented times with many challenges — war and insecurity, energy and food crises, climate change and the lingering consequences of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.
Even before, the global food system was already under pressure due to factors such as climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our planet is visibly suffering from the devastating effects of climate change: deforestation, desertification, weather extremes, environmental degradation and the loss of biodiversity, affecting in one way or another each and every one of us, no matter where we live.
As the country currently holding the presidency of the Economic and Social Council, we attach great importance to the priorities of emerging economies with regard to sustainable development, as well as to the priorities of small island States, taking into account their specific needs, including their existential struggle over the impact of global warming and the constant sea-level rise.


  
     993     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BHR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let me also express the Kingdom of Bahrain’s appreciation and support for His Excellency Mr. Antonio Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his outstanding efforts aimed at reinforcing the role of the international Organization, contributing to the maintenance of international peace and security, protecting human rights, coordinating humanitarian relief operations and supporting the Sustainable Development Goals, climate action and environmental protection.
Out of its awareness of the interdependence among the environment, natural resources and human, food and water security, the Kingdom of Bahrain has stressed its support for the four major international initiatives in the field of climate change and its commitment to achieving net-zero by 2060, reducing emissions by 30 per cent by 2035, doubling green spaces and enhancing the effective use of energy and renewable energy sources.
My country stresses the importance of strengthening international cooperation in protecting the environment and addressing climate change in a sustainable and equitable manner, while ensuring energy security.
We express our support for the Saudi Green and Middle East Green initiatives and wish the sisterly Arab Republic of Egypt success in hosting and presiding over the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in November in Sharm El-Sheikh.


  
     994     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BHS_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The scientific consensus is that as ocean temperatures rise, we can expect hurricanes of greater intensity to arrive with increased frequency.
Small island nations like mine did not create the emissions that are warming the Earth, but we are nonetheless on the front lines of climate catastrophe.
But no one country, large or small, acting alone can stop climate change, nor can we individually reduce the threat of future pandemics, end the policies and conflicts driving global inflation or tackle global criminal networks.
Of all the risks we face, none require more urgent action than the climate crisis.
The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the first conference on climate change, was held in 1992, yet despite decades of conferences and meetings featuring warnings from scientists and experts, one sixth of all the carbon emissions ever generated — some 407 billion tons — occurred between 2010 and 2020.
I have frequently spoken, as have so many others, about the need for action in terms of climate justice and fairness.
Why should small island nations like mine, which have contributed so little to the climate crisis, experience the biggest burdens and risks of climate change?
For a long time, decision-makers in both the public and private sectors believed that climate action had to come at the expense of economic growth, but now many are beginning to understand that climate inaction is the most expensive option of all.
We have roughly 40 days until the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is held in Egypt.
Countries like mine, already trapped by billions in climate debt, need funding to transition to renewable energy infrastructure.
In February and July of this year, we hosted the One Young World regional and annual conferences for young people to support the next generation in their efforts to engage with climate-related issues.
This was the first climate conference for young people in the region.
Then in August, the Bahamas took the lead in bringing together the member countries of the Caribbean to agree a consensus position for negotiations at the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
All of it acts as a major carbon sink for the world.
By each of us acting out of our own enlightened self-interest, we acknowledge that we ourselves benefit from doing what is in the best interest of all in meeting the existential challenge posed by the climate crisis.


  
     995     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BLR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

A similar Copernican paradigm shift must occur today.


  
     996     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BLZ_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The planet is being destroyed by climate change.
Global temperatures have already increased by 1.2°C above pre-industrial levels.
Greenhouse gas emissions reached record highs in 2021 and continue to rise this year.
Fossil fuels are still dominant, while renewables account for an abysmal 15 per cent of global energy sources.
The current energy crisis in Europe has led to people using more fossil fuels as a panacea rather than doubling down on the energy transition.
Those realities heighten climate risk, especially for vulnerable States.
Belize ranks eighth of 183 on the Global Climate Risk Index.
We are but one hurricane away from catastrophe, yet financing needed for climate adaptation remains woefully inadequate; only about a quarter of all climate finance goes to adaptation.
In truth, they are broken and stand impotent in the face of the three Cs: COVID-19, climate and conflict.
Public-sector expenditure on climate-caused loss and damage cannot continue to be classified according to fiscal orthodoxy.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is largely devoid of ways to quantify consequential climate impacts on public debt and countries’ capacity
to pay.
We need a new global financial architecture that has the willingness and capacity to identify systemic threats, such as debt and climate risk, and devise tools that are commensurate to the challenges.
We urgently need a new global financial architecture dedicated to achieving the SDGs and net-zero emissions and to building resilience.
The availability of affordable, long-term and dependable sources of financing is indispensable to the achievement of the SDGs and climate resilience.
We need international financial institutions that will urgently align their policies and practices with the achievement of the SDGs and climate goals and redistribute liquidity to developing countries.
The paradox is that the countries most vulnerable to climate change and natural disasters, and with the least fiscal capacity to adapt and recover, do not qualify for grant and concessionary financing.
That will unlock financing for vulnerable countries, supporting their efforts to achieve the SDGs, adapt to climate change and build resilience.
That debt deluge is attributable to the inaccessibility of concessional financing, the impact of the pandemic, the costs of climate change and disaster recovery, other external shocks and, for SIDS, structural features related to their small size.
We must break the pernicious cycle between debt and climate and disaster risk.
The international financial institutions must incorporate climate risk into debt sustainability tools.
I now ask how much longer the new climate colonialism will continue punishing the victims and sparing the victimizers?
We had great expectations for the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26) in Glasgow.
COP26 was considered a make-or- break moment for the world’s leaders to make more ambitious pledges to keep the goal of limiting warming to 1.5°C within reach.
Rather than getting global commitments to keep the 1.5°C goal alive, we left Glasgow with commitments that will see the global temperature increase by 2.7°C by 2100.
Rather than delivering a loss and damage facility to help our countries deal with the losses and damages caused by climate change, we left with mas palabras.
In the meantime, Belize continues to suffer from climate-related damages equivalent to 4 per cent of its GDP annually — among the highest in the world.
We need less talk and more decisions at the next two climate-related conferences.
At COP27 in Egypt, the G-20 must bring new commitments to closing the emissions gap, bring the financing for adaptation and establish a financing facility to substantively address loss and damage.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the climate emergency are the most catastrophic events since the Second World War.
Our failure to act decisively and urgently on COVID-19, conflict and climate condemns humankind and our planet irreversibly to disaster.


  
     997     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BOL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we seek a better future for current and future generations, we must not only reflect on the economic, social, food, climate, energy, water and trade crises, but also clearly identify their origins so as to change a system that perpetuates the domination, exploitation and exclusion of the vast majority, generates the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few and prioritizes the production and reproduction of capital over the creation and reproduction of life.
One example is that in recent months, 20 times more financial resources were earmarked for the conflict in Eastern Europe than were pledged to the Green Climate Fund over the past decade.
Sixth, the climate crisis requires accountability, solidarity and harmony between human beings and nature, not profit-seeking.
Another crisis that threatens to destroy humankind and the integrity of our Mother Earth is the climate crisis, which is leading towards environmental collapse.
The discouraging rates of emissions reductions that have been observed and estimated to date demonstrate that countries with the means to change their production and consumption patterns do not have the political will to do so.
Those that have set ambitious targets for themselves have not received the means for implementation, as promised in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to achieve those targets.
Furthermore, those that are mainly to blame for greenhouse gas emissions are now asking each country to chase the illusion of decarbonization by 2050, without considering the past responsibilities of developed countries or the capabilities and limitations of developing countries, for whom access to the latest clean technologies is out of reach.
Perhaps the historic climate debtors want us all to be concerned only about the future so as to avoid, in the present, talking about the unfulfilled promises that were made to developing countries on funding, technology transfer and capacity-building.
Today, more than ever before, it is clear that we need a specific financial mechanism that is based on solidarity, and not on profit-seeking, to address the losses and damage caused by the climate crisis in countries engaged in intense development of their productive forces.
We firmly believe that a future that is low in emissions and resilient to the climate crisis will not be possible if wealth remains concentrated in the hands of a few.
Therefore, to reverse the climate crisis, we must resolve the economic, social and political contradictions that have been created by the capitalist model, as well as those human beings and nature.
We have managed this resource very responsibly, in particular as we take steps towards its industrialization, while ensuring that it is used to benefit all humankind as a key pillar of a global and just transition to a future that is low in emissions and respectful of Mother Earth.


  
     998     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BRA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Part of this 100 per cent clean energy opens up the possibility for us to become suppliers of highly competitive industrial products, especially in the Brazilian north-east, with one of the smallest carbon footprints in the world.
Countries that once presented themselves as leaders of the low-carbon economy have now turned to dirty sources of energy.


  
     999     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BRB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Yes, regrettably, there are too many people dying in conflict and as a result of the economic crisis, and the hand that we must lend to life comes in the decisions that we must make to reform and to fight for peace and not to fight to sustain war wherever it is found around the world; to fight for reform so that our citizens are not made victims of poverty due to the triple crisis of climate change, the pandemic and now the conflict that is causing the inflationary pressures that have regrettably led to people taking circumstances into their own hands, as we have seen in Haiti in the last week.
All of us now know what it is to be on the front line of the climate crisis.
Any attempt to deny that the climate crisis has humanmade origins is an attempt to delude ourselves and an admission that we want to be accomplices in the continued death, loss and damage that ensue for the people who are victims of the crisis.
That funding would be used to address the needs of countries, whether in relation to climate stability, resilience and adaptation; the protection of biodiversity, both on land and in our waters; the protection of public health against the next pandemic, either a slow-motion pandemic of antimicrobial resistance or another that we have not even contemplated; the provision of education for all of our citizens, because to remain on Earth without the benefit of education is to be sentenced to life imprisonment from a young age; access to electricity, given that 600 million people in Africa are without it; or access to broadband, the equivalent in our age to the right to knowledge and prosperity.
It is the first recognition that middle-income countries should be able to access funding irrespective of per capita income, depending on their climate vulnerability.
We cannot get lost in the conflict, the climate crisis and the pandemic and forget what our mission is.
As I come to the issue of climate change, which will dominate over the next 45 to 48 days as we head to Egypt, let us remember that the trust that is needed to propel us to fight the great causes of our time will not be won by breaching promises.


  
     1000     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BRN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is yet another challenge the world was facing even prior to the pandemic, and it is one that continues to be a real and existential threat today and that, if left unaddressed, could lead to another global emergency.
In 2015, the world came together on two landmark agreements, namely, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which sets a target to limit global warming by 1.5°C and global greenhouse-gas emissions; as well as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is aimed at, among other things, to achieve zero hunger.
And yet, as we reach the halfway mark towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we see the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showing that the impacts of climate change on agriculture have had devastating consequences on food production and food security.
To that end, Brunei Darussalam is committed to the climate ambition and is moving towards net zero by 2050, through forest preservation and transition to clean energy, to shape a low carbon and climate resilient future.
With 72 per cent of our total land area still covered by rainforests, our greenhouse-gas emissions only accounts for 0.017 per cent that of global total.
As one of the regional champions for conservation, environment and forest preservation, Brunei is also playing a leading role regionally by hosting the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Centre for Climate Change.
It will function as an intergovernmental centre for climate change coordination and cooperation.
It will also strengthen the region’s capabilities to prevent, mitigate, and manage climate-related disasters through established mechanisms and the formulation of policies.


  
     1001     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BTN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to share young Chimi’s letter with the Assembly today: It reads:
“My village is in great danger because of global warming.
“Therefore, I would request Your Excellency to kindly convey this small message to the world leaders and big and rich nations to help and save our tiny village from global warming.
“I think we are not too late to fight against global warming now.”
Chimi’s poignant letter evokes the plain truths of communities standing on the front lines of the climate crisis.
We are reminded with far too much frequency that across the world today, lives and livelihoods are in peril due to the impacts of human-induced climate change, rising sea levels and natural disasters.
The negative impacts of climate change are disproportionately affecting the most vulnerable and marginalized communities around the world, and doing so at a faster pace.
This calls for a demonstration of greater ambition from developed and large emitters, consistent with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We must see deeper emission reductions in keeping with a fair share of global efforts, consistent with the 1.5°C pathway.
At the same time, we must see greater solidarity and cooperation from all States to support the efforts of the most vulnerable to adapt to the changing climate and deal with its consequences.
We must ensure adequate and predictable finance and technological and capacity support for developing countries, particularly the landlocked developing countries, the least developed countries (LDCs) and the small island developing States, to enable us to achieve the goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement.
We need to forge strong international cooperation in coming up with viable projects and partnerships to scale up investments in alternative renewable energy and reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, particularly in the manufacturing and transport sectors.
Bhutan hopes that the urgency to move beyond business as usual will be heeded at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in November.
Our forests are net carbon sinks, absorbing two-thirds more carbon than we emit.
Bhutan is not just carbon neutral, but carbon negative.
The human race continues on a collision course with nature, battling against the climate, biodiversity and pollution.
This discussion assumes greater urgency as we approach the midpoint towards implementing the 2030 Agenda, in full realization that today, the conflict in Europe and the looming climate emergency have thrown efforts towards achieving the 2030 Agenda and SDGs off course.


  
     1002     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_BWA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We concur with his observation that the current global challenges —namely, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the war in Ukraine, humanitarian challenges and climate change — are complex and interconnected and hence require transformative solutions.
As United Nations Member States, we should look no further for those solutions than in the already existing key multilateral frameworks, among them the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its SDGs, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Declaration on the commemoration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations (resolution 75/1), as well as the outcomes of major United Nations meetings.
This year, we continue to witness extreme weather events that point to the escalating severity of the climate crisis.
The decisive implementation of the bold climate action spelled out in the Paris Agreement and the Glasgow Climate Pact is therefore needed to prevent the worst implications.
Botswana remains committed to our 15-per cent carbon emissions reduction target by 2030, as indicated in our nationally determined contributions and reconfirmed in our climate change policy, adopted in 2021.
The policy addresses access to climate finance, clean technologies and renewable energy.
Climate ambitions will not translate into climate action in developing countries if they remain inadequately funded.
We are therefore pleased that new financial pledges to support adaptation in developing countries were made at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP) in Glasgow, United Kingdom.
It is our hope that these commitments will be fulfilled expeditiously in order to enable accelerated implementation, particularly in Africa, a region that contributes minimally to climate change but is, regrettably, the most affected.
In that context, we are optimistic that COP27, to be held in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on African soil, will further inspire ambitious climate action and deliver more adaptation resources for Africa and other vulnerable regions.
Drawing on that inspiration, Botswana, in collaboration with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and various stakeholders, convened a climate adaptation week 2022 from 22 to 26 August in Gaborone, under the theme “Transformations in Advancing the Formulations and Implementation of National Adaptation Plans”.
As we continue to seek an amicable redress of this warring conflict, it is important that the United Nations system be particularly adequately resourced, given its critical work of saving lives and alleviating the suffering of victims of armed conflict, climate change and other disasters.


  
     1003     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CAF_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is time for the biggest polluters to honour their commitments, in particular the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and international solidarity for climate justice for the most vulnerable populations.
Solutions still need to be explored through regional and international mechanisms, in a spirit of interdependence, to overcome the challenges of physical infrastructure — transport, energy, water, education and health care — through the implementation of adapted programmes and the mobilization of financing through the public-private partnerships; access to capital markets for the financing of development projects through public-private partnerships; the development and coordination of trade policies and economic relations with other regions; support for education system through the training of trainers and the creation of professional training centres; the development of a resilient economy able to withstand internal and external shocks through economic diversification and the adoption of new technologies; the creation of innovative financing mechanisms to address both agriculture and climate change so as to improve access to the financial capital needed to develop the agropastoral sector; and the promotion of smart solutions and approaches to climate change that are adapted to the national context.


  
     1004     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CAN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

From Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine and the impacts around the world, to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, to climate change, to severe the conflicts and hardships that now affect billions of people, the challenges we are facing are immense.
People from all corners of the globe clearly said that climate change is no longer on the horizon.
We are facing major crises: the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, conflict.
Let us now talk about climate change.
From the Arctic to small island States, climate change poses an existential threat, and we experience its effects every day.
Canada is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 to 45 per cent by 2030, and then to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.
Canada will be participating in the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Egypt, and we look forward to welcoming the world to my home in Montreal for the fifteenth Meeting of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, under the chairmanship of China.


  
     1005     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CHE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we examine a map of ongoing conflicts today, it becomes clear that a direct link almost always exists with other issues that destabilize our world, including: growing food insecurity; high energy prices and the issue of energy security; climate change, biodiversity loss and environmental pollution; even global health challenges, such as the coronavirus pandemic, which we have just experienced and not yet overcome, and whose heavy economic and social consequences we continue to feel.
Our fourth priority is to act for climate security.
Climate change, one of the greatest challenges we face, also threatens peace and security.


  
     1006     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CHL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Finally, as many Member States are clearly experiencing, the climate crisis has a particularly strong impact on our Latin American continent, and especially the Caribbean, as well as the livelihoods of our people.
However, our country, no doubt like many Member States present and a large part of the global South, produces and is responsible for a tiny share — in our case 0.24 per cent — of global greenhouse-gas emissions, while the countries with the biggest economies, the Group of 20, as the Secretary-General recalled, produce 80 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions.
The protection and promotion of human rights everywhere and by every Government, decent work, universal social protection and the fight against the climate crisis are today universal demands that are the focus of Our Common Agenda (A/75/982), led by our Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres, and the Sustainable Development Goals.


  
     1007     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CHN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In response to climate change, China is committed to pursuing a development path of green and low-carbon growth that puts ecological conservation first.
We announced the ambitious carbon peaking and carbon neutrality goals and are working to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     1008     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CIV_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The current session of the General Assembly is being held at a time when the energy crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine has tended to compromise the progress made in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, particularly as a consequence of some industrialized countries’ return to the use of coal.
Unfortunately, time is running out, and we must act quickly and implement all of the commitments under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to meet the goal of maintaining global warming below 1.5°C.
In order to meet that goal, developed countries must drastically reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions and uphold their commitment to contributing $100 billion dollars a year to developing countries.
I am convinced that the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Egypt, will provide a new opportunity to renew the political commitment of all stakeholders to contribute to financing the fight against global warming.
I would like to point out once again that my country will uphold its commitments under the Paris Agreement and is committed to protecting its forest heritage and rich biodiversity.


  
     1009     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CMR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The very first global and urgent challenge of the hour is the climate crisis.
No one is ignorant of the fact that the climate is changing, the cycle of the seasons is out of order and fires are increasing, as are unprecedented floods and hurricanes in various parts of the world.
Temperatures are reaching worrying levels; bodies of water, like Lake Chad, a source of life and prosperity for local populations, are reduced to their bare minimum.
This is the time to call for compliance with the commitments made within the framework of the various international conferences dedicated to climate change.
It is therefore more than urgent that action be taken to finalize the rules for implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, particularly with regard to mobilizing financial resources in favour of developing countries and to raising our ambitions for the global climate.
The twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, scheduled to be held in Egypt late this year, is of crucial importance in that regard.
The fight against climate change is a fight we all must wage on behalf of us all and every day.
Aware of this major challenge and its responsibilities, Cameroon has made a commitment to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions and has set up an appropriate legal and institutional framework to that end.
Thanks to the forest massif of the Congo basin, one of the ecological lungs of the globe, the countries of Central Africa, united in the Central African Forest Commission, are making a major contribution to the search for solutions to climate change throughout the world.
Moreover, on the occasion of the revision of its nationally determined contribution, Cameroon has confirmed its commitment to this international momentum by increasing its greenhouse gas reduction commitments from 32 per cent to 35 per cent, 12 per cent of which are unconditional and 23 per cent of which are conditioned on the support of the international community for our efforts to address climate change.
For Cameroon, the fight against climate change is seen as a development opportunity and not as an insurmountable challenge.
Each country holds one of the digits of the access code to the new era in which the planet aspires to breathe newly clean air, without carbon but rich in oxygen.


  
     1010     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_COD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The major challenges facing humankind today are security and peace for all, addressing climate change, reviving the global economy after the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), combating poverty and promoting our collective well-being.
The time has come to break forever the infernal cycle of violence in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to stabilize the Great Lakes region and take full advantage of its economic potential, as well as its rich biodiversity, to save humankind from climate change.
Carrying out those changes poses two fundamental problems, namely, the implementation of legal and financial instruments resulting from international
negotiations, in particular within the framework of the various Conferences of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the energy transition.
It is time, on the one hand, to put an end to the selective implementation of commitments made by polluters and, on the other hand, to compensate, in the name of climate justice, the efforts made by less-polluting countries, including those of Africa, in order to preserve the environment for the sake of our entire planet.
In that regard, it is important to note that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is among the primary producers of essential strategic minerals for the energy transition and the decarbonization of the transport sector.
In that regard, we are delighted to host the preparatory work for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate, which will take place in Kinshasa next month.
It should be recalled that no relevant international legal instrument ratified by the Democratic Republic of the Congo prohibits our country from exploiting its natural resources for the purpose of protecting the environment or due to fears about accelerating global warming.
The 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change acknowledges that developing countries are within their right to emit carbon dioxide for their development purposes, while taking steps to protect the global climate through their nationally determined contributions.
This will allow the Democratic Republic of the Congo to achieve its economic and social objectives, while protecting its forests and remaining the country with solutions in the fight against global warming.
On the economic front, the challenge to be met is that of helping to revive the economies of countries that have been weakened by the collateral effects of climate change and the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in order to promote balanced global economic growth and halt the spread of poverty in developing countries.
In any event,
any facility that provides access to additional resources for those countries sorely tested by climate change and COVID-19 would be welcome.


  
     1011     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_COG_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We should always remember the promises that were made, from Copenhagen to Glasgow and under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Those promises were made with enthusiasm but, to date, they remain unfulfilled by the rich countries — the same countries responsible for 80 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions.
However, in spite of that, as we prepare for the twenty- seventh session of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which Africa will host next November, we hope that this time, at least, instead of the statements of commiseration to which we are accustomed and the usual formulas and hollow promises, considerable resources will finally be mobilized for poor countries that have become even more vulnerable owing to climate disruptions.
Together with the Government of the United Kingdom, the host of COP 26, my country’s Government plans to launch, over the next few weeks, a political forum entitled “Forests and climate leaders’ partnership”.


  
     1012     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_COL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

There, in those forests, planetary oxygen is generated and atmospheric carbon dioxide (C02) is absorbed.
Never mind the scientists’ warning that the rainforest is one of the great pillars of the climate.
The forest — the pillar of our global climate — is disappearing with all its life.
Which is more toxic to humankind — cocaine, coal or oil?
The fight against the climate crisis has failed.
Their mathematics and climatological models demonstrated that the end of the human species is near and that we no longer have millenniums — or even centuries — left.
Wars have served for them as an excuse to not take action to combat the climate crisis and shown them how dependent they are on what will finish off the human species.
The climate disaster fills us with viruses that spread devastation, but they do business with medicines and turn vaccines into commodities.
The climate disaster will kill hundreds of millions of people, and the members of the General Assembly may be assured that it is not the planet but capital that will be to blame.
The cause of the climate disaster is capital.
The logic of relationships geared to consuming more and more and producing more and more so that some of us earn more and more is the cause of the climate disaster.
From the land of forests and beauty — where they decided to make the Amazon forest the enemy and to extradite and imprison its farmers — I urge the members of the General Assembly to stop the war and put an end to the climate disaster.


  
     1013     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_COM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It should be recalled that climate change is one of the important elements of the Sustainable Development Goals.
However, entire regions are simply destined to disappear, while others are daily subject to the intensification of climate phenomena, such as floods, intense droughts, fires, coastal erosion or the acidification of the oceans.


  
     1014     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CPV_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In their journey, small island development States (SIDS) face such structural limitations as geographical remoteness and isolation, their small economic dimension and dependence on imports and high costs, on the one hand, and exports of sector-concentrated services, on the other, which more frequently and intensely expose them and make them vulnerable to the impact of external shocks, whether climate-related, economic or of other nature, such as pandemics and geopolitical conflicts.
In my capacity as President of Cabo Verde, and counting on my African counterparts, I propose investing in the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage of the whole of Africa and reflecting on how to promote climate justice and equity in Africa and for Africa.
It is a question of striving to reach consensus on a more flexible and less abstract notion of climate equity that places common but differentiated responsibilities at the heart of a public and global debate, and to create a common platform for Africa, with view to transferring responsibilities from one generation to the next.


  
     1015     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CRI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate crisis and biodiversity loss are hitting us mercilessly and without discrimination.
Yet as the most vulnerable countries we are the ones stepping up our efforts, creating large protection and conservation areas and increasing our adaptation and mitigation efforts, while the biggest carbon emitters and those responsible for the climate catastrophe continue to ignore their obligations.
We have come to the General Assembly to identify comprehensive solutions to the multiple crises we face, because it is impossible to end poverty without empowering women and girls, ensure respect for human rights without addressing climate change, and address the reform of the international financial system without new parameters for the allocation of assistance.
It is with a real sense of urgency that we call on the support of the international community to address that challenge, which has been aggravated not only by conflict and poverty but also by the impact of climate change.
For my country that is a beacon of hope comparable to the proclamation of the right to water, to development or to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and it is the right response to our triple planetary crisis of pollution, climate change and the loss of biodiversity.
We find it inconceivable that while millions of people are waiting for life-saving vaccines, medicines or food, the richest countries continue to prioritize spending on arms at the expense of people’s welfare, climate health and equitable recovery.
It is therefore vital to go beyond measurements such as gross domestic product per capita with new parameters for the allocation of aid, investment and international cooperation that take into account other aspects, such as structural deficiencies, climate risks, market fluctuations and fiscal stability.
The fourth action requires a higher level of ambition and urgency to address the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.


  
     1016     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CUB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Greenhouse gases reached record levels in 2021, and it will be the same this year.
Average sea levels have reached a new high.
The past seven years are the warmest ever recorded.
We cannot continue to ignore the warnings of an impending climate catastrophe.


  
     1017     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CYP_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Furthermore, that would have ensured that we would have been able to tackle social and economic exclusion, the lack of adequate health-care standards and the shortage of educational opportunities; that
sustainable development would have finally become a reality for all countries and regions in need by establishing the necessary political and socioeconomic conditions that lead to stability, economic growth and institution-building; that measures for the prevention of climate change and its devastating consequences would have been implemented consistently by all parties involved; that terrorism and religious fundamentalism would have given way to tolerance and understanding; that the trillions of dollars spent on destructive weapons would instead have been spent on actions and programmes aiming to bridge the gap between rich and poor States; and, finally, that multilateralism would have been the guiding doctrine of all States.
During my 10-year tenure as President of Cyprus, I may not have been able to enjoy what the vast majority would have also wished to see: the necessary reforms of this international Organization, the resolution of international conflicts and the tackling of such challenges that affect hundreds of millions of people as hunger, poverty and climate change.


  
     1018     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_CZE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss are major global challenges.
We need a comprehensive humanitarian, development-oriented and peace-based response to crises, including pandemics, as well as solutions that foster sustainable food systems and climate resilience.
The stakes are high for the upcoming twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Egypt.
Africa faces food shortages, the negative impacts of climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     1019     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_DEU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let us take climate change, for example, which is the biggest challenge of our generation.
We, the industrialized countries and major emitters of greenhouse-gases, have a very special responsibility in that regard.
With that in mind, we reiterated our intention at the Group of Seven (G-7) Summit in Germany in June to forge ahead in order to achieve the 1.5°C target, not despite the war and the energy crisis, but precisely because climate neutrality also leads to greater energy security.
We stand by our pledges to support emerging economies and developing countries in their efforts to reduce emissions and adapt to climate change, with new, fair energy transition partnerships, for example.
We will not abandon countries that are struggling the most in the face of loss and damage as a result of climate change.
By the time of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Egypt, we therefore want to establish a global shield against climate risks.
More cooperation, more partnership and more involvement are the only reasonable response, whether in the fight against climate change, global health risks, inflation and disrupted supply chains or our approach to displacement and migration.
With a newly emerging climate club, we are pressing ahead with friends and partners worldwide to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change even more swiftly and efficiently.


  
     1020     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_DJI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We meet at a time when the world is going through a period of uncertainty, marked by multiple crises on the security, economic, health and climate fronts.
We are particularly alarmed by the potential risks for these countries created by severe difficulties in paying external debt, persistent marginalization by international trade, inadequate access to electricity and, of course, the catastrophic impact of climate change.
Climate change is an existential threat to humankind.
We also urge States to read the sixth report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, AR6 Synthesis Report: Climate Change 2022, whose findings and predictions should motivate the international community to mobilize massively.
We cannot passively allow each Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP) to note that we have not done enough.
We therefore welcome the fact that the Egyptian presidency of COP27, at a pivotal juncture, has made the theme of the upcoming Conference the effective implementation of commitments, particularly regarding support for fair transitions and the mobilization of financial resources and viable investments to respond to climate change.
Dj ibouti reaffirms its commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Although we are a low greenhouse-gas emitter, my country is committed to a large-scale environmental policy and the goal of 100 per cent nationally produced energy by 2035.
Although it may have escaped the notice of some, including here at the United Nations, Djibouti is also negatively affected by the same climate risks as the other countries of the Horn of Africa, especially drought, drastic reductions in water resources, sea- level rise, flooding and water-resource salinization.


  
     1021     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_DMA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

They include climate change, the degradation of our ecosystem and loss of biodiversity, poverty, inequality and the growing challenge of chronic non-communicable diseases.
We need to talk less and start taking the concrete and sustainable actions needed to reduce carbon emissions into the atmosphere.
In addition to tropical storms and hurricanes, we are facing prospects of droughts, warming seas and rising sea levels, all of which will affect lives and livelihoods.
For that reason, we continue to champion the call for collective global action in order to build on the resilience of our small island States in the face of natural disasters that are triggered and exacerbated by our changing climate.
Not enough support is being given to us to adapt and build resilience to the effects of climate change that are already upon us.
I will not stand here today to detail to the Assembly the ways in which climate change is affecting us.
Those experiences triggered our goal of becoming the first climate-resilient nation in the world and realigned our focus to concentrate on adaptation efforts and building back better in every sector of the economy.
Our small island developing States are disproportionately affected by the impacts of climate change — a phenomenon that will continue to escalate with every increment of global warming.
As sea levels rise, some small island States will eventually disappear, while others will experience
coastal erosion that will ultimately destroy infrastructure, villages, towns and cities.
The Commonwealth of Dominica therefore reiterates its call on the international community, at the twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to prioritize the disbursement of climate financing to SIDS in order to support our adaptation and resiliency efforts as we seek to minimize loss and damage from extreme climate events.
Furthermore, the continuous call for higher levels of commitment to climate justice must be reflected in tangible and effective responses.
Dominica reported on the tremendous progress accomplished in terms of both the advances made towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and its national agenda as guided by the vision of becoming the world’s first climate-resilient nation.
Across Dominica, new and modern climate-resilient homes are being constructed for low- and middle-income families, while modern and smart health and wellness centres have been built and equipped in urban and rural communities.
In that regard, the Commonwealth of Dominica takes this opportunity to commend the Government of the People’s Republic of China for its commitment to contribute an additional $42 billion to the new Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, which will assist countries such as Dominica that are on the front line of the negative impacts of climate change to accelerate the realization of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     1022     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_DNK_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate, pandemic, violent conflict, instability, forced displacement, food insecurity — we feel them everywhere, regardless of where we live, in our everyday lives, as the price of food and energy rises, inequality increases and extreme weather and climate-induced disasters hit.
None of us can steer through pandemics or counter the climate crisis alone, and neither should we.
More than anything, today we need climate solidarity.
The industrialized world must acknowledge its responsibility to deliver on the climate crisis.
Climate solidarity means climate financing.
As Denmark strives to reduce its own footprint, we have made major global commitments on climate adaptation and climate financing.
We have massively scaled up Danish grant-based climate financing to at least $500 million a year by 2023.
We also need to step up and listen to those affected the most by climate-induced damages.
We were proud to be the first contributor to the Santiago Network for Averting, Minimizing and Addressing Loss and Damage at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), and this week we have followed up with several new initiatives for those hardest hit and the world’s poorest.
As we look towards COP 27, Denmark will also be among the founding members of the Systems Observations Financing Facility — an initiative taken by Secretary-General Guterres to ensure that early- warning services reach everyone in the next five years.


  
     1023     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_DOM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Another pressing issue is climate change and its devastating effects, which call for proactive solidarity with those that are the least able to deal with it effectively.
As an island, our country is ready to make concrete proposals in the context of the twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Naturally, our positions, as small island developing States, demand that the countries that contribute most to global warming maintain on their agendas a vital cooperation mechanism with those that suffer the most from the effects of climate change.


  
     1024     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_DZA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the regional level, the Sahel-Sahara region remains vulnerable to the challenges posed by the spread of terrorist threats and cross-border crimes against the background of the expansion of institutional instability, the exacerbation of development problems and the effects of climate change.


  
     1025     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ECU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Ecuador is also playing its part in confronting the climate crisis.
As a country that emits greenhouse gases, we account for only 0.8 per cent of global emissions.
Climate change does not ask to what extent we have industrialized in the past but how much we can contribute to the future.
That is why, almost a year ago, at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow, I announced the creation of the new Hermandad marine reserve in the Galapagos Islands, which increases the protected area of that natural heritage of humankind by 60,000 square kilometres.


  
     1026     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_EGY_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is no doubt that the search for radical solutions to those interlocking crises is most applicable to the climate change crisis.
Egypt, in its capacity as President of the upcoming twenty-seventh session of the Conference of States Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27), appeals sincerely to all members of the international community to translate our pledges and commitments into action and to support developing and least developed countries in their efforts to confront the devastating impacts of climate change.
During COP 27, which Egypt will host in a few weeks’ time, we look forward to reaching outcomes that contribute to accelerating the pace of implementation at all levels, consolidating the international community’s commitment to addressing climate change, including through emissions reduction, enhancing adaptation and tackling losses and damage due to climate change and, most important, raising climate financing ambitions.
The international community’s ability to move forward on implementing the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, especially limiting the rise in global temperature, is closely linked to the achievement of tangible outcomes in Sharm El-Sheikh conference.
That will demonstrate to our peoples that confronting climate change remains a top priority at the global level, among all other challenges that confront today’s world.


  
     1027     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ERI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

While the scourge persists, we are confronted these days with the equally perilous fallout of climate change and global warming, which exacerbates the already precarious situation.
The extreme and ridiculous inequalities, whereby less than 1 per cent of the population owns 99 per cent of national wealth; unbridled consumerism, which has bred and continues to aggravate climate change; and the atomization of societies that has literally decimated social compassion and community care by fostering exclusive and unnatural individualism are dangerous trends that will ultimately undermine the social fabric and stability of individual countries and our global village at large.


  
     1028     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ESP_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Young people, born at the start of this new millennium, in particular represent a generation that, in addition to confronting this new crisis in their lives, is living under the very real threat of the climate emergency and its consequences for the world they will inherit.
The third major challenge I wish to discuss is related to the climate emergency and the need to advance the ecological transition with urgency and determination.
Diversifying, electrifying and decarbonizing our energy mix will be essential for
two reasons.
Secondly, it is necessary because if we are to respond to climate change, which is the fundamental and increasingly obvious challenge facing our and future generations, we need to redouble our commitment to the transition to renewable energy.
I believe that the current situation is pushing us to even greater determination to deliver on our societies’ commitment to decarbonizing our economies.
We will present that initiative in Egypt in November during the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, together with the secretariat of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and other interested countries.
We must focus on the serious risks in the area such as irregular migration flows and the threat of terrorism, which could be exacerbated by the conjunction of the food and energy crisis, the climate emergency and demographic trends.


  
     1029     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_EST_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

There remains little dispute over the existential crisis posed by climate change.
Russia’s aggression also brings further pain to those already suffering from the impacts of the pandemic, conflicts, famine and climate change.


  
     1030     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ETH_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Humankind is facing multiple and complex challenges, ranging from climate change, extreme poverty, conflicts, terrorism and geopolitical tensions.
Although climate change and the resulting extreme weather conditions occur throughout the globe, the crisis largely affects the minimally resilient and those least responsible for causing the problem.
Climate disaster and its insufferable impacts are preventable.
We must realize our climate financing commitments in order to build resilience and mitigate the impacts.
We should act to meet our emission-reduction targets.
I must emphasize that Africa is not responsible for the historic emissions that caused the climate crisis; yet we are the ones making the most tangible contribution to mitigate the impacts of climate change.


  
     1031     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_EU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Energy and climate change are two sides of the same coin.
To overcome the energy crisis is to reduce the climate threat, and to protect our biodiversity and our oceans is to secure our future.
Climate neutrality is the compass of the European Union.
At the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Sharm El-Sheikh, we will push urgently to implement the promises of Paris and to go beyond.


  
     1032     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_FIN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

A triple crisis concerning energy, food security and finance is weighing heavily on vulnerable countries, countries that are already suffering the most from the climate crisis and the coronavirus disease pandemic.
Last year in this Hall, I noted that it is not an exaggeration to say that we are facing a global climate emergency (A/76/PV.4).
They are another a reminder that climate change is an existential threat to humankind.
Besides mitigating climate change, we must adapt to it.
In particular, we must honour the commitment of doubling adaptation finance made at the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow.
I want to underline this — fighting climate change and taking care of the economy are not contradictory.
Increasing geopolitical tensions, as well as the impacts of climate change and the pandemic, are making conflicts more complex and prolonged.
We must not sleepwalk into a climate and biodiversity catastrophe.


  
     1033     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_FJI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We also condemn another war — the climate war — that humankind is waging on itself, its ecosystems and its oceans.
Lastly, I condemn the cold war of indifference against the citizens of small islands and States who bear the brunt of this superstorm of global shocks — from rising commodity prices to the climate crisis and the pandemic.
If we do not halve carbon emissions by that critical year, the crisis of our warming planet will imperil every gain that we and every nation have made.
If we fail to secure 1.5°C, we will crush any hope of improving our citizens’ quality of life.
The Pacific’s children are among the least to blame for the climate crisis, yet our children are the most affected.
I challenge leaders from the high-emitting nations to name a greater global injustice than the price that young Pacific islanders are paying for climate change.
We built cement and nature-based seawalls to keep out the rising seas.
We are building back better to the standards demanded by a warmer world.
The archaic architecture of multilateral development banks and global financial services gives us little to no access to grants or concessional climate financing, particularly for adaptation.
We legislated a net-zero commitment by 2050 through the Climate Change Act 2021, which will make us more energy secure, protect us from energy price shocks beyond our control and provide us with cleaner air, better health and better jobs.
They simply will not keep us at well below the 2°C target, let alone 1.5°C.
I again urge developed nations to deliver on the $100 billion climate financing commitment at the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Egypt this year.
Ahead of Glasgow, I told leaders not to bother packing their bags if they did not come with serious carbon-slashing commitments.
They should come only if they plan to arrive true to their climate financing commitments.
That must be in the order of $750 billion, with at least 10 per cent of climate financing destined for small island States.


  
     1034     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_FRA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Half of humankind now lives in a climate danger zone.
The most vulnerable people are always the hardest hit by crises, climate disruption, pandemics and rising food prices.
That is why we must urgently create a new contract between North and South, an effective, respectful contract on food, climate and biodiversity, and education.
With regard to climate and biodiversity, in a few weeks we will meet in Egypt for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Our first collective fight is to eliminate coal.
Otherwise, we will exceed the predictions of a 2°C global temperature increase.
The richest countries must accelerate their carbon neutrality programmes and must also make the effort to show restraint and share green technologies.
We cannot ask the same of both sub-Saharan Africa, where 100 million people remain without access to electricity, and the largest emitters.
That is why the richest countries must strengthen their financial and technological solidarity with the poorest countries on climate issues.
In that context, together we must also protect our carbon pricing and biodiversity.
Let us make it the COP21 for oceans.
Who proposed funding for the climate transition?
It is not those who did not show solidarity and contributed nothing to help mitigate climate issues.
The situation in our post-COVID-19 world — increased climate deregulation, the loss of biodiversity, imbalances created by the war — call for greater solidarity.


  
     1035     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_FSM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

While traditional security concerns have taken much of our world’s attention in recent memory, for Micronesia, as a Pacific island country, it must continue to be emphasized that the most enduring security threat to the Pacific and the world is in the form of anthropogenic climate change.
The Federated States of Micronesia makes its most urgent appeal to the global community, especially the developed countries, to commit to the intent of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change by providing adequate, accessible and concessional financing for climate mitigation and adaptation, as well as for loss and damage.
On loss and damage specifically, Micronesia calls for the adoption of an agenda item at the twenty- seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27) on a loss and damage response fund, the establishment of that fund at COP 27 and the full operationalization of the fund to be completed at COP 28.
The Federated States of Micronesia cannot overemphasize the extreme urgency of limiting global warming to 1.5°C through rapid, deep and sustained reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions.
However, to the extent that mitigation, as well as adaptation, are not sufficient to avert or minimize loss and damage, financing must be provided with all due haste to help vulnerable communities, like those of my country, to recover from climate change-related loss and damage.
Current efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions remain wholly inadequate.
The world is moving past 1.5°C of warming and is rapidly speeding towards and will soon exceed 1.5°C.
Despite warnings of dangerous feedback and tipping points, many actors still continue to engage in the worst carbon-emitting activities.
Fortunately, the tide is changing on CO- emissions, but still too slowly.
Moreover, research shows that efforts to reduce CO2 alone will not cool the planet in the short term.
Only the mitigation of methane, which is a super pollutant and the second-most potent greenhouse gas, and of the other short-lived climate pollutants can prevent the world from exceeding the 2.0°C upper limit over the next two decades.
We need a new and robust methane agreement, which is currently not addressed sufficiently in the existing legal framework.
Doing so is key to ensuring that countries can put their adaptation plans in place while additional CO2 mitigation gets under way.
Micronesia urges all countries to commit to the Kigali Amendment and the Global Methane Pledge to see a 30 per cent reduction of methane emissions from 2020 levels by 2030.
That is indeed a monumental step towards curbing climate super pollutants.
In my previous three addresses, I urged the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China to consider climate change a non-political and non-competitive issue for cooperation, because solving the climate change crisis ultimately requires both of those superpowers to work together.
It is my wish that they can respect each other so that they can see with their eyes wide open that it is Micronesia’s strongest desire and the desire of the rest of the Pacific island countries that they resume cooperation on tackling climate change.
Their capacity to cooperate on climate change is necessary to ensure that our world is habitable for future generations and does not suffer from civilizational collapse.


  
     1036     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GAB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a dear friend of Gabon for many years, King Charles III shares my enthusiasm for protecting our natural environment and biodiversity and my concerns about global climate and sustainability.
Fifty years after the Stockholm Conference, humankind faces an unprecedented triple environmental crisis — climate change, the biodiversity extinction crisis and pollution, notably by plastics.
First, with regard to climate change, thanks to its 88 per cent forest cover and a rate of deforestation well below 0.1 per cent, Gabon is an exemplary high- forest, low-deforestation country.
Since the fifteenth Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was held in Copenhagen in 2009, Gabon has net absorbed more than 1 billion tons of carbon dioxide.
We absorb more than 100 million tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere every year.
In other words, we have already achieved and indeed have exceeded the Paris Agreement on Climate Change objective of carbon neutrality.
We are counting on the creation of a net carbon sequestration market to enable us to maintain that performance through 2050 and beyond.


  
     1037     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GBR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must also collectively extend a hand of friendship to the parts of the world that have too often been left behind and left vulnerable to global challenges, whether that is the Pacific or Caribbean island States dealing with the impact of climate change, or the countries of the Western Balkans facing persistent threats to their stability.


  
     1038     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GEO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are mindful that our regional challenges must be addressed against the backdrop of global challenges, such as international security, the ongoing pandemic and climate change.
The planetary crises created by climate change, from biodiversity loss to pollution, represent an existential threat.
Like many challenges, climate change affects developing nations first, hindering their ability to realize the Sustainable Development Goals.
Education in the twenty-first century means investing in digital literacy and promoting infrastructure in order to bridge the digital divide and ensure that future crises, whether related to public health, war or climate change, do not create dire situations.


  
     1039     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GHA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The turmoil and insecurity in many parts of the world require urgent attention, and so does the need to tackle the problems posed by climate change.


  
     1040     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GIN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It also reiterates the need to redouble our efforts to achieve this goal, through preventive diplomacy, respect for human rights and international solidarity in the fight against climate change and debt forgiveness for the least developed countries.
Furthermore, my country reiterates its commitment and insists on the fight against climate change and irregular migration.


  
     1041     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GMB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Despite its size and economic status, the Gambia is at the forefront of fighting climate change through ambitious national action plans, and we look forward to participating effectively in the twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Egypt and the fifth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries in Qatar.


  
     1042     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GNB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have dedicated much effort to mitigation and adaptation.
We hope that the twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will be a deciding step in defining and adopting concrete strategies to minimize the negative impacts of climate change.


  
     1043     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GNQ_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The coexistence of traditional conflicts and emerging challenges, such as transnational crime, cybersecurity, biosecurity, climate change and piracy, among others, are becoming increasingly prominent, which means that the current world situation can be solved only by seeking peace by all means necessary through negotiations and inclusive dialogues.


  
     1044     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GRC_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let me conclude with a point about meeting the momentous challenges of climate change.
Our National Climate Law is aimed at mobilizing all sectors of the economy as we establish a road map for our transition to net zero by 2050.
It is the battle to protect cultural heritage, not just from climate change, but from armed conflict, illicit trafficking and its interconnection with terrorist financing, and religious fundamentalism.
Greece, in partnership with UNESCO and the World Meteorological Organization, has launched the Addressing Climate Change Impacts on Cultural and Natural Heritage initiative, supported by more than 100 Member States, the Secretary General, the Council of Europe and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
As the United Kingdom hands on the baton and the work of the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to Egypt for the twenty-seventh Conference, we have a final chance to get this right.
In pursuit of freedom, the preservation of democracy and the rule of law, and the fight against climate change, there is indeed a long road ahead.


  
     1045     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GRD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is imperative that the matter of climate change be escalated to this level of urgency among our community of nations.
The devastating effects of global warming can already be felt all over the world, with higher temperatures exacerbating many types of disasters, including storms, heat waves, floods and droughts.
We have tinkered long enough and must now accept that the solutions to the problems we face may not be found in this grand Hall or in the highest echelons of global climate discussions, but rather with the people, especially our young people, who stand to lose the most from the inaction of our current leaders.
I challenge all young people today to choose to be agents of change rather than victims of climate change.
The appointment of the Honourable Kerryne James as Minister for Climate Resilience, the Environment and Renewable Energy, at 23 years of age, is a milestone for my country and the Caribbean region, as Ms. James is the youngest Government minister in the Caribbean.
Confronting the climate crisis will require a complete transformation of our mindset and behaviours but also, and importantly, the transformation of our energy sources, economic models and land stewardship.
As the leader of a Caribbean small island developing State, I am all too familiar with the devastating effects of climate change and the stark reality that — in the face of increasingly strengthened hurricanes and sea-level rise — we may not have a country to pass on to future generations .
The small island States of the Caribbean are already experiencing significant adverse effects due to climate change.
I could continue in this vein, highlighting the devastating consequences that Caribbean islands suffer owing to the warming climate, including the harmful effects on our rich biodiversity and underwater resources.
Given the focus of my address here today, it is evident that climate change is inimical to Grenada’s transformational agenda.
We continue to insist on a clear road map at the global level for ambitious climate action in order to ensure that global average temperatures remain below the 1.5°C threshold.
As we seek to bolster climate resilience in our island home, I reiterate the call for us all to urgently scale up climate financing for adaptation and remove the challenges that developing nations face in accessing such financing.
We are encouraged and indeed proud that a son of the soil has been given the responsibility to manage global climate action.
The appointment of Simon Stiell as Executive Secretary of the United Nations Climate Change Secretariat sends a clear message about the importance of island voices in the fight against climate change.
We are optimistic that we will achieve the mandates of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change and its protocols, as well as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     1046     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GTM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We also face the constant threat of the effects of climate change, which are becoming more evident, dangerous and extensive every year.
As we did last year, Guatemala and the rest of Central America and the Caribbean want to call attention to the ravages caused by climate change in our region.
It enables local economic development and is a barrier against the impact of climate change.
Similarly, agricultural insurance was implemented in order to support small producers who, due to drought or flooding caused by climate change, are in danger of losing everything and must emigrate if they do.
With a view to meeting our climate change mitigation commitments, we are promoting the formulation of a national decarbonization policy.
In addition, we updated our nationally determined contribution and are promoting important strategies that, in the medium term, will help mitigate the impact of emissions from vehicles that use fossil fuels.
The economic factor and the effects of climate change are some of the main causes.
Guatemala shares the same interests and challenges with its Caribbean brothers, with whom we unite in a single voice to fight against climate change and its effects.
Let us concern ourselves with the real battles — fighting hunger, malnutrition, confronting climate change and so many other issues that affect the human race.


  
     1047     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_GUY_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The international community faces a series of interlocking challenges — a global pandemic, climate challenges, energy and food crises and inter-State conflicts.
Since the start of the pandemic, global food prices have surged by 65 per cent and are expected to remain high over the medium term as a result of supply chain constraints, a hike in energy costs, higher shipping costs, climate issues, the war in Ukraine and the fertilizer crisis.
Now is the time for us to decide if a new approach is needed to guarantee food
security, energy security, climate security, access to health care and quality education, and security from conflict and wars.
We all recognize that there is climate crisis.
For example, at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26), we agreed that there would be no more coal-fired power projects.
While policies and planning for climate change adaptation are expanding, financing and implementation are still far behind where they should be, according to the United Nations Environment Programme’s Adaptation Gap Report 2021: The Gathering Storm.
In 2019, $79.6 billion was allocated to developing nations for planning and carrying out mitigation and adaptation measures.
The paltry $100 billion pledge and the failure to meet it must be viewed in the context of the likely costs of climate action for mitigation, adaptation and addressing loss and damage.
The adoption in Glasgow of broad rules on carbon markets has the potential to unlock critical resources for forest-rich countries.
Forested countries such as Guyana can potentially earn billions of dollars through voluntary carbon markets.
At the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties, we must make progress in refining the rules for the implementation of article 6 of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and make decisions that will increase the price of carbon traded in voluntary carbon markets.
The volume of electricity generated by fossil fuels increased by 178 per cent between 2000 and 2021 — in particular, the volume of electricity generated by coal increased by 173 per cent between 2000 and 2021.
Also, analysis by the International Energy Agency indicates that getting on the path to net-zero emissions by 2050 would require a threefold increase in the current level of investments in the clean energy transition to reach approximately $4 trillion by 2030.
In this energy transition, fossil fuels are still necessary.
Even as a new entrant, at COP26 Guyana proposed ending subsidies for fossil-fuel production and advocated the need for a strong global carbon price.
We are committed to building a Guyana that addresses the issues of food security, climate change, energy security and inequalities within our country and the region.
We are on a path to reducing Guyana’s food import bill and increasing food security through expanded cultivation and investments in new technology and climate-smart agriculture, all aimed at positioning Guyana as a leading food producer in the Caribbean Community.
We are pursuing a low-carbon development strategy, aimed at creating a model for value ecosystem services and sustainably developing and managing the blue economy, investing in clean energy and stimulating low-carbon growth, protecting against climate change and biodiversity loss and aligning with global climate and biodiversity goals.
Our forests, whose area is equivalent to the size of England, store 19.5 gigatons of carbon with a deforestation rate of less than 0.05 per cent.
Having already achieved net zero in emissions, we are working steadfastly in our transition from a 2020 status of 95 per cent dependence on heavy fuel oil and diesel to an energy mix that includes hydropower, solar, wind and natural gas, from which more than 500 megawatts of new generating capacity will come on stream.


  
     1048     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_HRV_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

What is more, we are also witnessing an intolerable imbalance in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
The richest 1 per cent in the world are responsible for 15 per cent of emissions — twice as much as half the poorest of humankind.
It is up to those who pollute the most to provide the most effort; that is not only fair but also the most effective if we are to achieve our climate objectives.
I wish to say a few words on climate change and biodiversity.
Despite the enormous current challenges, we have a responsibility to also safeguard our commitments to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Ahead of the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Egypt, let us evaluate the implementation of our joint commitments from Glasgow.
We need to strengthen cooperation in the effort to find mechanisms and financial resources to fulfil the Paris Agreement and to continue the fight against climate change at the national, regional and global levels.


  
     1049     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_HTI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

“My country, like many others in the Caribbean, the Indian Ocean and elsewhere, remains highly vulnerable to climate hazards, rising sea levels and increasingly violent and frequent natural disasters.


  
     1050     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_IDN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Crisis after crisis is unfolding around the world, including climate change, rising inflation food and energy shortages.
A new paradigm would instil a collective responsibility to attain the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and fight climate change.
We will work together to address our shared challenges, including on climate change.


  
     1051     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_IND_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Indo-Pacific region also has fresh concerns about its stability and security, and climate events have added an overlay to these mounting anxieties.
Climate events have added to the disruption that the world is already facing.
Climate action and climate justice are particularly noteworthy in this respect.
“Lifestyle for environment” or “LiFE”, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared on the sidelines of the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26) in Glasgow, is our homage to Mother Nature.
India remains deeply committed to fighting climate change under the Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement.
We have announced our updated nationally determined contributions after COP 26.


  
     1052     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_IRL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are convening here at a time of crisis, when we are yet again facing the threat of widespread global hunger and food insecurity; when we see daily the devastating impacts of climate change, with those who bear no responsibility for its causes being most affected; when we have witnessed the most blatant disregard for international law and for the Charter of the United Nations on my own home continent of Europe; and when much of the progress that we were making towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals has stalled or gone into reverse as we grapple with the continuing effects of the coronavirus disease pandemic.
A year ago I stood before the Assembly (see A/76/PV.13) and spoke of our ambition for the Council to adopt a resolution on climate and security.
Together with the Niger, we worked tirelessly to craft a draft resolution in the Council that reflected the reality that climate change is increasingly driving insecurity and acting as a threat multiplier.
We challenged the Council to take on its responsibility to address the impact of climate change on international peace and security, and 113 countries — 113 members of the Assembly — supported us in our efforts.
Combined with the impact of climate change, conflict, severe drought and other extreme weather events, we are facing a crisis that requires urgent action.
And we have adapted our funding and our programming so that we respond to humanitarian emergencies in a way that underpins our climate, development and peacebuilding interventions and builds the resilience of individuals, families and communities.
At the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change later this year, we will be at the forefront of efforts to combat the existential threat of climate change.
Adaptation to climate change and its effects will remain a key focus of our international engagement and support.
We must make progress on averting,
minimizing and addressing losses and damages that are a direct result of our changing climate.


  
     1053     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_IRQ_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is no secret to anyone that Iraq is enduring difficult climate conditions due to the scarcity of water resources, the change in course of rivers that Iraq shares with some neighbouring countries, and the implementation of projects without taking into account their effects on water quotas and fair use by riparian countries.
All of those conditions have come together and led Iraq to become the fifth most vulnerable country to climate change, which has recently caused most of Iraq’s marshes to dry up and damaged the livelihoods of hundreds of rural families living there.
While Iraq suffers from climate change, it will also suffer from all the measures taken to address this phenomenon and the reduction in dependence on fossil fuels.
That requires international support in various fields in order to back Iraq’s efforts and enable us to move forward in implementing national policies and strategies to mitigate and adapt to the adverse effects of climate change.


  
     1054     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ISL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The number of people who are faced with food insecurity, poverty and hunger is increasing at a terrifying rate due to the lingering effects of the pandemic and the pandemic response, armed conflict and climate change.
Natural catastrophes linked to climate change are becoming more relentless and severe, as evidenced by the recent flooding in Pakistan and the droughts in the Horn of Africa and the Sahel, for example.
We face a climate crisis that will not go away on its own.
It is paramount that all countries make every effort to accelerate our fight towards better climate resilience.
Iceland is committed to doing its part and has set ambitious targets of achieving carbon neutrality and full energy conversion no later than 2040.
We increased our contribution to climate financing, with a strong focus on a balanced approached to mitigation and adaptation, and we are committed to do more.
It is also us who must answer the call to defend our nature and fight back against climate change and combat poverty and deprivation.


  
     1055     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ITA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those crises stand alongside the other great challenges of our time — climate change, the coronavirus disease pandemic and inequality — and amplify their costs, especially for the most vulnerable.
Through a newfound spirit of cooperation, we intensified the fight against climate change.
For the first time, all G-20 member States pledged to try to keep global warming to within 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and accepted the scientific facts behind that goal.
The commitments that we made at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow followed shortly thereafter.
We must continue to support the most vulnerable States in order to help them defend themselves against the impacts of climate change and to pursue their own transition paths.


  
     1056     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_JAM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We gather as the world faces unprecedented overlapping crises:	the	ongoing impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic; the war in Ukraine; inflation; debt; energy and food insecurity; and natural disasters fuelled by climate change.
Small island developing States and some middle-income countries are particularly vulnerable to climate and external economic shocks, which have an oversized impact relative to their national budgets and an often-crippling impact on their infrastructure.
We eagerly anticipate an era of truly equitable access to concessional financing and other funding support
that will enable us to invest in resilient infrastructure and create fiscal buffers so that we can withstand and recover quickly from the next economic, health or climate shock with little borrowing.
We are working with our development partners using innovative financing tools, such as floating a catastrophe bond to insure us against climate disasters.
Most important, we are mainstreaming climate resilience in all our infrastructure investments.
Climate change is an immediate existential threat for small island developing States such as Jamaica.
Concerted action to slow down and halt global temperature rise is literally a question of our survival.
While we continue to develop our own resilience and play our part in mitigating climate change, we cannot change the trajectory by our actions alone.
Jamaica looks forward to the convening of the twenty- seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Egypt later this year.
We call on all countries to meet their commitments and contributions to climate targets.
We also call on the countries of the developed world to increase their commitments and ambitions in climate financing, especially for adaptation and loss and damage.


  
     1057     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_JOR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Numerous crises batter our world, crises that are increasingly interlocked — regional conflicts with an international impact, devastating climate change, pandemic disruptions, extremist violence, spiralling inflation, looming recession and, for all too many around the world, the growing reality of hunger.
Let us consider the climate crisis.
We have been building strong partnerships to manage and sustain vital water resources, and we see more opportunities to work with partners to preserve precious world heritage sites and natural wonders — the unique Dead Sea, the sacred Jordan River and the resilient coral reefs of the Gulf of Aqaba, all of which are threatened by climate change.


  
     1058     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_JPN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today, in addition to global pandemics, we see the use of force and coercion against other countries, food and energy insecurity, inflation and climate change.


  
     1059     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KAZ_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Finally, these crises severely hamper the urgent action we all agreed to take to combat climate change and enhance sustainable development.
With only eight years until 2030, the Sustainable Development Goals are hampered by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, a triple planetary crisis — climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution— and conflicts around the world.
Along with threats to international security, climate change requires greater international cooperation and solidarity as well.
Around the world, people are facing existential threats from weather and environmental change.
However, climate action cannot come at the expense of development or modernization.
Therefore, at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change later this year, Member States, as well as the global business community, must once again scale up their commitment to greater climate finance.
We intend to work together with all stakeholders to address a pressing regional agenda that includes climate change, the Aral Sea, the rational use of water resources, border delimitation, combating extremism and expanding intraregional trade.


  
     1060     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KEN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The immense pressure exerted by conventional threats, such as climate change, the global food crisis, terrorism, cybercrime and armed conflict, has been compounded by the unprecedented and devastating disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Many countries now bear witness to the unsettling phenomena of rivers, canals and water reservoirs drying up owing to droughts and heat waves occasioned by climate change.
With that in mind, I call on Member States and all relevant stakeholders to demonstrate strong political will and showcase effective cooperation by supporting the most affected countries both financially and by sharing land-restoration and climate-adaptation technologies.
The latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reminds us that we cannot afford to waste another moment debating the merits of doing something versus doing nothing.
I fully agree with the Secretary-General’s memorable statement, that “[w]e have a rendezvous with climate disaster” (A/77/PV.4, p.3).
The agricultural sector has an important part to play in reducing the severity of climate change.
Kenya is responding through substantial investment in climate-resilient agriculture.
In particular, I call on developed countries to invest in sustainable fishing, protect marine ecosystems and share ocean-based climate solutions with developing countries.
We must rally together to make the best use of Africa’s vast blue resources in developing our economies while meeting our climate targets.
As we look forward to the twenty-seventh Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Sharm El-Sheikh in Egypt, it is logical to expect that Member States will shift their attention towards the development and implementation of frameworks for climate change mitigation.
I therefore call on all of us to urgently deliver on all commitments made towards climate-change financing.
I call on global financial institutions and the international community to take urgent steps to release all existing financial instruments in order to provide much-needed additional liquidity and secure better fiscal space for developing countries such as Kenya to enhance social investment, support climate change adaptation and mitigation, address security needs and resolve development financing challenges.
On behalf of Kenya, I therefore join other leaders in calling on the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other multilateral lenders to extend pandemic- related debt relief to the worst-hit countries, especially those affected by the devastating combination of conflict, climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     1061     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KHM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Moreover, another existential threat facing humankind is our vulnerability to climate change.
We need to transform the process of addressing climate change issues today, not tomorrow.
Our collective action must focus on global mitigation efforts to promote climate-resilient development.
Our commitment to lowering the mean global temperature by 1.5° C requires dedicated climate financing and technology transfer to facilitate meaningful transition in mitigation and adaptation
efforts.
The Glasgow outcomes adopted at the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change must be implemented with great urgency, bearing in mind the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.


  
     1062     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KIR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Compounding the devastation are the persisting challenges of climate change that have manifested in coastal erosion, reducing available land space, and droughts that have affect the livelihoods of many persons.
The consequences of COVID-19, climate change and the war in Ukraine are clear examples of interlocking challenges that must be addressed urgently, using the seventy-seventh session’s motto of solidarity, sustainability and science.
Climate change is another area in which science has made and continues to make advances in our understanding of the root causes and ways to address climate change.
However, the lack of solidarity even through multilateralism continues to be the stumbling block to addressing the global climate change emergency.
The targets that have been agreed and set under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, including the financial pledges, continue to remain out of reach.


  
     1063     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KNA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The coincidence in timing of a global pandemic and a war, with the growing calamity of the climate crisis, has exposed the fragility, vulnerability and instability of the global supply chains for food, staples and other essentials.
For small island developing States, and indeed vulnerable peoples everywhere, there can be no international security without climate security.
Even as geopolitics and great Power competition exacerbate conflict and the climate catastrophe, we must face the hard truth that only through multilateralism will we force the global trajectory towards global peace, prosperity and sustainability.
Every country on the planet and national populations have had to confront the reality of climate change.
As our planet heats up, so too have the frustrations and impatience of the globe’s ordinary citizens, who feel that they are losing the fight to make ends meet and secure the future of their children.
I therefore humbly urge countries to honour the financial commitments made before the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to double contributions to adaptation financing by 2025.
Climate financing, resiliency and environmental conservation must be integrated into national development policies and must be at the forefront of our global development agenda.
The situation cries out for the multilateral system to urgently put in place a multidimensional vulnerability index that takes into consideration the particular characteristics and climate vulnerabilities of small island developing States such as mine.
All countries are environmentally vulnerable; all are socially and economically exposed to the exogenous shock, but the climate-challenged, tourism-dependent countries in the Caribbean Sea run the real risk of a wipe-out event during several consecutive months every year.
Caribbean nations are on the bullet end of a climate fight that we did not cause, do not want and cannot afford, but that we are unable to escape.


  
     1064     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KOR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In pursuit of the global agenda for decarbonization, countries with leading green technologies must work to unsparingly share new and renewable energy technologies with other countries.
Turning to the issue of climate change, Korea will scale up its green official development assistance, help developing countries transition to a low-carbon future and share its innovative green technologies with all humankind.


  
     1065     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_KWT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The multiplicity and diversity of the challenges and dangers facing humankind include the spread of deadly diseases, the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, the growing phenomenon of terrorism, in addition to threats related to natural disasters, climate change, poverty and the increase in food insecurity.


  
     1066     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LAO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Countries in special situations — namely, the least developed countries (LDCs), the landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) and the small island developing States (SIDS) — which have endured the most difficult period coping with COVID-19 impacts, are additionally confronting climate, food and energy crises.
In addition, we are also facing extreme weather events in various parts of the world due to climate change.
Over the past years, our Government has attached great importance to combating climate change through the implementation of the revised nationally determined contribution, which clearly outlines the ambitious targets of national action plans with regard to tackling and mitigating climate change with a view to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050.
To that end, there is pressing need for adequate financial resources and technical support for gaining access to climate financing and other sources of funding to support developing countries, especially LDCs, LLDCs and SIDS, to achieve their development goals and commitments made under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In that regard, we call for renewed political will, coupled with concrete actions, taken by the international community at the upcoming twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in order to preserve our planet for many generations to come.


  
     1067     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LBN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We stress our commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     1068     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LBR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year’s Assembly is taking place at a difficult time when, even as the world is recovering from the scourge of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), we continue to face the challenges of the war in Ukraine, climate change and its devastating effects on our environment.
They include the health and socioeconomic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the devastating effects of climate change, environmental concerns, poverty reduction, food insecurity and gender inequality.
That commitment is reflected in the Pro-Poor Agenda for Prosperity and Development, which embodies the expression of our shared determination to achieve peace, prosperity and national development and to address extreme poverty, inequalities, regional disparities, infrastructure deficits, climate change and equitable distribution of our national wealth.
My Government continues to take actions through the formulation of new policy frameworks and strategic interventions to address the impacts of climate change and protect the environment.
Liberia is committed to achieving the target of a 64-per cent reduction in carbon emissions below business as usual by 2030.
We anticipate that the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Egypt, will provide the opportunity to accelerate work towards achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     1069     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LCA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

And, overarching all of this are the continued challenges of climate change, with its fierce occurrences of floods, droughts and hurricanes, adding yet more uncertainty to our economic projections and aspirations.
It is no longer breaking news or a matter of debate that climate change is one of the biggest crises facing humankind today, but the solutions to the universal climate change emergency are not mystifying.
From the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in which we agreed that limiting global warming to below 1.5° C would help us stay alive, to the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Glasgow, we have followed the science, negotiated, compromised and agreed upon the solutions.
Those who are the biggest perpetrators of the climate crisis and who were supposed to take the corresponding greatest action have not followed through on their commitments.
The quantum of financing for climate justice, needed by developing countries and agreed upon by the developed countries, has not materialized.
Other issues of the Paris rule book are still to be implemented.
The multilateral development financial institutions have yet to change their systems to make it easier for developing countries to access the financing required to adapt to climate change and build climate resilient economies.
Developing countries, already saddled with debt, must be given the means to be able to deal with climate change.
It is regrettable, therefore, that recent political differences between two of the biggest polluting countries have led to a halting of cooperation between them on climate issues.
I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the Government and the people of Grenada on the appointment of their former Environment Minister Simon Stiel as Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The appointment of someone from a small island State is, we hope, a signal that the world is listening to the pleas of the most vulnerable for positive and urgent action in this climate crisis.
We urge the developed world to act upon the solutions to climate change that they have agreed upon.
For decades, we have called on global financial institutions to carve out a special regime that takes into account our smallness and vulnerabilities to climate change.
Given our small size and miniscule levels of industrial pollution, we are among the least responsible for global warming, but given our small size and vulnerable economies, we are among the most defenceless to the ravages of climate change.


  
     1070     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LIE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need more ambition and effective action to fight climate change.
Our work to address the Organization’s role to safeguard peace and security must embrace a comprehensive notion of security, with climate change being one of the key threats.
Progress in climate negotiations has been insufficient, and the pandemic, armed conflicts and challenges to energy supplies have done their part to contribute to a negative outlook.
Our collective action in the framework of the process of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will remain instrumental.
But it may well not be enough, in and of itself, to achieve the goals we have set ourselves in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Many of
our friends are contemplating legal avenues to fight climate change.


  
     1071     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LKA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those vulnerabilities have been aggravated by the devastating consequences of what the Secretary-General has referred to as a “five-alarm global fire”, which has resulted, inter alia, in the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and rising pollution.
Permit me to briefly turn to the aspect of climate change.
As Sri Lanka is a climate-vulnerable country, climate change has had the potential to adversely impact our socioeconomic progress, as well as food security and livelihoods.
Sri Lanka has pledged to meet the targets of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and our updated nationally determined contributions (NDC), submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change last year with the aim of reducing emissions to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
We also appreciate that meeting the NDC targets and executing the corresponding energy transition towards renewable and sustainable energy and energy efficiency measures will require significant climate financing.
We believe that in tandem with our own efforts, the world’s largest emitters of greenhouse gases must fulfil their commitments and assist developing nations in adaptation and mitigation measures under a common but differentiated framework.
We need to work towards a just, sustainable, resilient and inclusive recovery from the adverse impacts of climate change and the energy transition.
Turning to the ocean, members will appreciate that as an island nation, we are acutely concerned about and sensitive to the impact of pollution and climate change on the oceans.
In the General Assembly in May, we were pleased to have led a small but significant nature-based solution to mitigate the impact of climate change that led to the United Nations declaring 1 March as World Seagrass Day.
Seagrasses are an important carbon sink and absorb significantly more carbon than tropical rain forests.


  
     1072     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LSO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The continuous eruption of armed
conflicts throughout the world, terrorism, climate change, diseases, the lingering effects of the economic and financial crises and many others continue to transcend our borders and have remained in the foreground of international relations and preoccupied the international community.
In addition to the pandemic, these include unpredictable global shocks, including wars, climate-related events and a lack of predictable financing.
Among other things, our review highlighted the pressing challenge of climate change, which has a direct bearing on food insecurity and poverty, not only in my country but in Africa as a whole.
Climate change destroys our ecosystems, results in land degradation and contributes to the decline of agricultural productivity, which is the mainstay of small economies.
In this connection, my delegation calls upon all Member States to use the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held this time on African soil, as an opportune time to address Africa’s challenges on climate change and to support our needs and priorities in the form of affordable and sustainable energy, capacity adaption and mitigation.
We disagreed for far too long on the subject of climate change until we were confronted by the glaring and compelling scientific evidence that the link between global warming and human activity is indisputable.
While we appreciate that there are resources aimed at helping developing countries to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change, we are concerned that such funds are very difficult to access.
The global climate-finance architecture is complex, with variable structures of governance and modalities.
Some finance
is channelled through multilateral agencies, sometimes even outside the funding mechanisms of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and some flows through bilateral development assistance institutions, thereby making coordination difficult.
Lesotho calls on the international community and our development partners to simplify the accessibility of funds earmarked for climate change.


  
     1073     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LTU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Standing before this Assembly of world nations, I wanted to speak about peace and about challenges that the world is facing today — income inequality, pandemics and climate change.
We have demonstrated that by building energy independence and accelerating our green transition.


  
     1074     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LUX_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today we see that the Sahel region is suffering from food insecurity, amplified by climate change and the effects of the war.
It extends to cooperation on renewable energy and the fight against climate change, as we are also doing with our partners in Cabo Verde.
For my part, for example in terms of climate financing, my country decided to apply the principle of additionality.
At the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Glasgow, I announced that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg was going to increase its climate financing to €220 million for the period from 2021 to 2025.
Half of that funding will go to adaptation to climate change in the most vulnerable countries.
We play a major role in mobilizing the private capital needed to finance the transition to carbon neutrality, including with the European Investment Bank in the area of sustainable financing.
Given the climate emergency, I must say that, as politicians, we are at times a little timid.
We wonder what the consequences will be if the temperature increases by 1°C or 2°C.
They risk being erased from the map of the world because of the temperature rise.
In Luxembourg, I launched the Citizens’ Climate Council, where we asked 100 people to meet and make proposals.
We must mobilize to stay on course for the 1.5°C target that we signed up to in Paris.
Only by making joint efforts can we manage to mitigate the impact of climate change.
Climate change also has an impact on human rights, in particular the rights of children.
The President emphasized the fact that we are at a decisive turning point and that we all should meet the various challenges facing us, be it war or climate change.


  
     1075     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_LVA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Let me now turn to the issues of sustainable development and climate change.
Joint efforts must also be continued to address the consequences of climate change, including through development cooperation efforts.
The problem of global justice is particularly related to climate protection.


  
     1076     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MAR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change requires immediate and urgent solutions.
In that context and in line with His Majesty’s vision, the Kingdom of Morocco has warned of the consequences of the climate crisis on the African continent, which has suffered its greatest impact.
The Kingdom has decided to increase its nationally determined contribution and reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 45.5 per cent by 2030, in the context of Morocco’s integrated strategy to achieve low- carbon development by 2050.
That ambition underpins the Kingdom of Morocco’s intention to uphold the commitments it undertook at the 2016 African Summit in Marrakech, which was held on the sidelines of the twenty-second Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, under the presidency of His Majesty King Mohammed VI, especially with regard to developing capacities in the agricultural sector, adapting to climate change and increasing the use of sustainable energy.
In that context, Morocco has been investing in the agricultural sector so that it can adapt to climate change.


  
     1077     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MCO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

For more than three decades, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has been warning us about the disastrous and often irreversible effects of climate change.
As extreme climate events multiply, affecting all nations indiscriminately but particularly penalizing the most vulnerable, strengthening adaptation measures must be at the heart of our priorities.
These urgent and necessary efforts must be carried out in concert with policies to drastically reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and reverse biodiversity loss by 2030.
Each country, according to its own circumstances and needs, must transform its economy in depth to decarbonize it and contain the rise in temperatures.
In this respect, the Principality is pursuing its energy transition to achieve a 55 per cent reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050.
The upcoming deadlines in 2022, both within the Climate Convention and the Convention on Biological Diversity, must allow us to truly lay the foundations for a sustainable society.


  
     1078     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MDA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

But that only makes us more determined to diversify our energy sources and decrease dependence on fossil fuels.
We all know that the only way to save the planet is through joint global action against climate change.


  
     1079     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MDG_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is one of the major challenges of our time and one that we all have to tackle.
I would like to raise the alarm here about commitments that were made at the twenty- first Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and reaffirmed at COP26, regarding the creation of the Green Climate Fund, which was supposed to be funded annually in the amount of $100 billion.
It is unfair that the least-polluting nations should pay the highest price for the impact of climate change.
Madagascar is an island and therefore vulnerable to climate hazards.
Our island is the first country to have endured a climate-induced famine.
The effects of climate change are worsening.


  
     1080     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MDV_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

As conflicts grow, as the climate crisis rages, as economies lie in shambles and as we emerge from an era-defining pandemic, we are left anxious and fearful.
First, we need to address the raging climate crisis.
For us, the difference between 1.5°C and 2°C is death.
Internationally, the Maldives will continue to lead the way in climate action.
In 2008, the Maldives and other like-minded countries pursued Human Rights Council resolution 7/23, on human rights and climate change.
If elected, addressing climate change as an integral part of the global human rights discourse will be among our priorities.
Like other small island developing States, we make only a miniscule contribution to global carbon emissions.
We will be the first to bear the consequences, yet we are the ones with some of the most ambitious climate action targets.
We are pursuing an ambitious national plan to reach net-zero emissions by 2030 — a goal we can meet only with international support.
We have set a national target to fully phase out single-use plastics by 2030.
In 2009 in Copenhagen, an ambitious pledge was made that $100 billion in climate financing would be mobilized by 2020.
Partners must scale up their efforts to make up the difference and we urge our partners to redouble adaptation finance as agreed under the Glasgow Climate Pact in 2021.


  
     1081     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MEX_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Humanitarian assistance needs have multiplied, inequality has unfortunately grown, and the negative effects of climate change have also increased.


  
     1082     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MHL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is vital that the legacy and contemporary challenges of nuclear-impact testing be better addressed, that climate change be addressed with the urgency and commitment it deserves, and that our voice as an equal partner be strengthened.
As a member of the Pacific Islands family, we rally around and acknowledge the fact that climate change is the greatest challenge and threat.
As a low- lying atoll nation whose future is at risk, there could be no stronger statement, nor should climate change be considered in isolation.
Today, as I entered this iconic Hall — a symbol of humankind’s hope and aspiration for world peace, prosperity and international cooperation — my thoughts flashed back 31 years, when the first President
of the Marshall Islands addressed the Assembly (see A/46/PV.7) and called attention to the dangers faced by our small nation owing to the looming threat posed by global warming.
As a matter of record, Marshallese Presidents and leaders in every succeeding Administration have been active and at the forefront of all United Nations global conferences on climate change and global warming, speaking out and fighting to keep our low-lying nation afloat.
Today, we renew our call on the world to declare total war on this century’s greatest challenge — the climate change monster.
Yet, after all these years, the world has failed to break our addiction to fossil fuel.
How much worse will it be if we breach 1.5°C?
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has been clear — solutions exist that can give us a fighting chance.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change delivered vital progress.
As the convener of the High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People, we believe without question that the Glasgow Climate Pact must be the foundation for a safer future.
We must honour those commitments and deliver enhanced, nationally determined contributions and policies on coal and fossil-fuel subsidies to reach those targets.
The Marshall Islands has proposed a carbon levy for international shipping that will drive the transition to zero-emission shipping, channelling resources from polluters to the most vulnerable.
The doubling of adaptation funding is a vital start, but, like all climate finance, we must see it delivered to the most vulnerable.
We are pleased to note and support the establishment of the human right to a clean environment and the post of Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of climate change.


  
     1083     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MKD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We also face the burning issue of climate change, despite all efforts to put up a joint and united front in saving our planet Earth.
The recent catastrophic floods in Pakistan are but one of the latest visible consequences in a series of extreme natural disasters worldwide caused by climate change.
Conflicts, instability, violence and climate change cause the spread of grave poverty for millions of people, as well as population displacements that are growing into an exodus.


  
     1084     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MLI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Once these steps are taken, I have no doubt that through our collective action we will succeed not only in calming the multiple sources of tension in the world, but also in promoting harmonious development and effectively fighting against pandemics, environmental degradation and global
warming, inequalities and policies of domination and resource pillaging.


  
     1085     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MLT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The consequences of not acting to safeguard it, compounded with the devastation caused by climate change, will be severe and could lead to famine and the further displacement of peoples.
The displacement of peoples due to climate change, particularly as a result of droughts and sea-level rise leading to loss of territory, is unfortunately taking place on our watch.
Though no one is safe from climate change, it is those who are most vulnerable who are the worst affected.
All of those are climate disasters that happened in 2022 but may become the order of the day if we do not intensify our efforts.
Together, we must keep the 1.5°C target alive, ensure that no one is left behind, and continue working to build decarbonized nations and societies.
As my country is about to proudly embark on a two-year term on the Security Council, we intend to do our utmost to keep climate change on the international peace and security agenda.
Climate change poses a serious threat to us all, but particularly to small island developing States and many coastal communities.
As Prime Minister of Malta, I am fully aware of the threat that climate change poses to small island States all over the world.
No matter how near to or far we are from one another, we truly share similar climate challenges.
Water scarcity is becoming one of the most serious effects of climate change.
Our water-management practices, particularly sourcing water through desalination and wastewater recycling, can serve as a model for addressing our world’s future needs, especially in view of the increasing recurrence of droughts brought about by climate change.
Malta launched an initiative for islands at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow last year, and we intend to continue to build on it further.
Our aim is to bring to the fore the realities of small island economies as we strive to decarbonize, digitalize and fulfil the Sustainable Development Goals.
The interplay between climate change and the health of our ocean is important for Malta as we draw on our maritime legacy and our historical contribution at the United Nations.
The ocean plays a pivotal role in combating climate change but is itself also vulnerable to the effects of climate change, such as rising sea levels and changes in sea temperature and currents.


  
     1086     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MNE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The second factor is climate change.
The main factor is climate change.


  
     1087     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MNG_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have no doubt that the seventy-seventh session will play an important role in boosting the social and economic recovery of the countries of the world in the post-pandemic era, implementing the Sustainable Development Goals, combating climate change and desertification and determining ways to resolve international crises and conflicts through dialogue and peaceful means.
The whole world is going through difficult ordeals and challenges, such as poverty, inequality, climate change, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and pandemic-related hurdles with regard to customs, transport and logistics, price increases and inflation, as well as geostrategic and geopolitical tensions.
It is time for all of us to ponder and reflect upon what progress could have been achieved if that colossal sum of money had been spent on the pressing issues of combating global warming and climate change.
We must not forget that the serious challenges we are facing, such as climate change, biodiversity loss, desertification, land degradation, shortages of water resources and droughts, are still awaiting solutions.
Mongolia is one of the countries most affected by climate change.
Therefore, with a view to combating climate change, desertification and dust storms and in order to increase forest and water resources, Mongolia launched the Billion Trees national movement in order to plant, grow and protect billions of trees.
In addition, Mongolia reiterates its commitment to actively cooperate and make a real contribution to reducing the negative impact of climate change and protecting the environment at regional and international levels.
The lives of more than 200 million people who raise livestock and live in harmony with nature like we do are at risk now due to climate change, land degradation, desertification, drought and extreme winter events.


  
     1088     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MOZ_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Among those, we can highlight COVID-19, climate change and humanitarian crises, with their negative effects on the global economy.
Climate change has made Mozambique permanently vigilant.
The Centre is aimed at providing SADC countries with tools and institutions capable of responding to and mitigating the impacts of climate change and other emergencies requiring rapid, coordinated and timely intervention in any member State.
Mozambique is committed to continuing to strengthen climate security, including through advocacy and the dissemination of good environmental protection practices, management and risk reduction of natural disasters.
In that vein, we call on the international community to join in our efforts so that we can continue to build resilience and adaptation capacity to address the effects of climate change, in line with the commitments made in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030.


  
     1089     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MRT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The current session is being held in a very challenging global environment, including the war in Ukraine, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, diverse terrorist threats and the threats of natural disasters caused by climate change.
In that context, my country has high hopes for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Sharm El-Sheikh in the sisterly Arab Republic of Egypt in November, and looks forward to the industrialized countries honouring their commitments to reducing emissions and the pledges they made at the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     1090     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MUS_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is the time when we should be seriously thinking of saving our planet, slowing down the effects of climate change, preventing a worldwide recession and, most importantly, preventing a nuclear catastrophe.
The twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change gives us another chance to globally agree on and commit to yet unprecedented measures to keep the temperature rise below the 1.5°C target.
Access to climate finance is essential to addressing these existential threats.
Restoring the health of our oceans is crucial to preserving our biodiversity, community livelihoods and climate resilience.


  
     1091     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MWI_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

For instance, we all know that climate change is a global problem that will never be solved unless all nations solve it together.
On climate change mitigation and adaptation, Malawi is ready to catch up.
With the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to be held imminently in Sharm-El-Sheikh, we call for action on the pledges that have already been made so that Malawi and other least developed countries (LDCs) can build resilience to climate-change induced events, such as floods, droughts, pests and cyclones — all projected to become more frequent and more severe.
As we prepare to deploy food assistance from our strategic reserves, we welcome members’ support through early-warning systems for generating and managing climate data to reduce the impact of disasters, as well as technical and financial capacity-building on weather data analysis, modelling and forecasting to address the barriers faced by farmers in accessing useful information.
Our ongoing institutionalization of our national climate change fund should help in that regard, as will other measures for making climate financing predictable.
Although Malawi and other least developed countries contribute the least to climate change, we are committed to the global climate agenda.
Malawi’s own ambition is to cut carbon emissions by half before the year 2040, and we therefore call for support for our efforts to transition to clean and green energy.
That is the United Nations the world needs — a reformed United Nations that practices the equality and democracy it preaches; a reformed United Nations that is not constantly polarized by nuclear Powers, stuck in Cold War mindsets; a reformed United Nations that uses its multilateral muscle to give equal attention to the interlocking issues of public health, food insecurity, climate change and conflict, regardless of where they emerge or whom they affect; a reformed United Nations that gives equal weight to all States Members that give it meaning, not just those that give it money.


  
     1092     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_MYS_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is a universal problem that affects us all.
Clearly, mitigation and adaptation measures need to continue.
That will help realize the actions taken against climate change that should have been implemented since 2020.
Malaysia is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent, based on gross domestic product, by 2030.
Malaysia is also committed to achieving its goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.


  
     1093     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NAM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are experiencing unprecedented impacts of climate change, including severe droughts and ravaging field fires.
We have to act decisively to reduce carbon emissions as our contribution to the preservation of our planet and people.
Namibia, like many developing countries, remains vulnerable to the asymmetrical impacts of climate change.
Therefore, at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Namibia plans to announce major developments in its ambitions to decarbonize global hard-to-abate sectors through the production of green hydrogen.
Our ambitions are necessary not only to mitigate the ravaging impacts of climate change but also as a critical component of our post-pandemic economic recovery.
Therefore, Namibia remains ready to work with the international community to ensure the most optimal utilization of its natural resources to combat climate change.


  
     1094     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NER_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

I welcome the leadership and commitment of Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to peace and development, climate action, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic response, as well as his sustained efforts to find solutions to the various sources of tension throughout the world.
In this Decade of Action to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals, the climate emergency is creating humanitarian needs and exacerbating existing development challenges.
Alarming evidence from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that we may have already reached or gone beyond major tipping points and irreversible setbacks.
Climate change exposes the African continent to worsening food insecurity, population displacement, recurrent droughts and pressure on water resources.
Faced with the urgency of this situation, I welcome the fact that, during the special high-level dialogue on the theme “The Africa We Want”, organized on 20 July 2022 under the auspices of the United Nations, the international community recognized that the twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP), to be held in November in Egypt, is a unique opportunity to adjust this imbalance.
In that regard, I would like to express the Niger’s commitment to the proposal of the African negotiators for a new objective of $1.3 trillion in financing by 2025 to better address climate challenges.
In the Sahel, a geographical area to which my country, the Niger, belongs, climate change, which negatively influences agricultural and pastoral activities and water resources, is also the cause of extreme droughts, torrential rains and temperature increases above the world average.
It has in turn become an incubation centre for a form of terrorism that is characteristic of a Sahel that is deeply affected by the effects of climate change preventing the practice of pastoral farming.
That ecosystem of violence has had a deadweight effect on the young shepherds of the communities most affected by climate change, among whom a number of terrorist vocations have arisen.
My reason for highlighting our ambitions in the field of education for a country like the Niger, after having spoken about climate change, terrorism and insecurity in the Sahel, is that we are aware that these three issues — demography, climate change and insecurity — are closely related.
Indeed, the terrorism currently at work in the Sahel is connected to the living conditions of certain communities whose environment has been considerably disrupted by climate change.
The combination of these two phenomena — demography and climate degradation — has created, as a result of the regional disorder following the fall of Colonel Al-Qaddafi’s regime in 2011, the situation of chaos that the countries of the Sahel are experiencing today.


  
     1095     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NGA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are now more severely tested by our enduring and our new global challenges, paramount among which are conflicts that are increasingly being driven by non-State actors, the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, terrorism, violent extremism, the malignant use of technology, climate change, irregular migration and disparities in opportunities for improved standards of living.
In every address that I have delivered to the Assembly, I have dwelt on the issue of climate change, especially as it fuels conflicts and complicates food security.
Climate change reduces opportunity and prosperity, which in Africa, Latin America and some parts of Asia also contributes to transnational organized crime.
Last year, as part of Nigeria’s effort to achieve our global net-zero aspirations, my Administration adopted
a national climate-change strategy that aims to deliver climate-change mitigation in a sustainable manner.
The measures we took at the national level also require climate justice.
Compared to industrialized economies, Africa and other developing nations produce only a small proportion of greenhouse-gas emissions.
Yet we are the hardest hit by the consequences of climate change, as we are seeing in the sustained drought in Somalia and the unprecedentedly severe floods in Pakistan.
Those and other climate-related occurrences are now suddenly becoming commonplace in the developing world.
At the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Glasgow last year, I said that Nigeria was not asking for permission to make the same mistakes that others have made in creating the climate emergency.
Fortunately, we now know what we can do to mitigate the effects of the climate crisis and the related energy challenges.
It is therefore our expectation that the seventy- seventh session of the General Assembly and the upcoming COP 27 will help galvanize the political will required to drive action towards fulfilling the various existing climate change initiatives.


  
     1096     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NLD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Putin’s cold-blooded power politics, which exploit the most basic human needs of so many people, provide yet another argument for ending the fossil fuel era even faster than we had planned.
They make tackling that other major global issue — climate change — even more urgent.
Together we have all made pledges aimed at keeping global warming below 1.5°C.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands, which is made up of four very different countries, is also feeling the effects of climate change, from heavier rainfall and worsening drought in the European part of the Kingdom to more severe hurricanes and rising sea levels in the Caribbean part.
Small island developing States are at the forefront of the world’s climate adaptation strategies, and Curasao, Aruba and St. Maarten, the island countries of our Kingdom, are no exception.
We are experiencing both the challenges confronting mainland Europe and those that small island States face
every day, including rising ocean temperatures, coral bleaching, biodiversity loss and ocean pollution.
Moreover, 90 per cent of all climate disasters manifest themselves through water via flooding, drought or pollution.
It is our responsibility to place water security at the core of all our climate action and worldwide efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
In the meantime, we will also need to step up our other climate efforts.
The twenty-seventh Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, will be another milestone, if only because it will mark the first time it will be convened on the African continent.
Our discussions further impressed on me the importance of climate action for Africa.
I can confidently say that the European Union member States remain fully committed to a 55 per cent reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 and a swift transition to clean energy.
The Netherlands is also working to combat deforestation and to help the world meet its $100 billion pledge on climate finance.
That money must go to the most vulnerable individuals and communities — to those hit hardest by climate change.
That is why the Netherlands will continue pressing for a doubling of finance for climate adaptation.
Half of the money that my country spends on international climate action now goes to adaptation and resilience, and we will continue on that path, because adaptation is in our DNA.


  
     1097     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NOR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a global community, we face the dire consequences of war, climate change, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, food insecurity and inequality.
The war is amplifying other crises and compounding the impacts of climate change and armed conflict in other parts of the world.
No continent is more vulnerable to the combined effects of climate change, conflict and growing food insecurity than Africa.
Together with fighting climate change, Norway has placed food security at the top of its development agenda.
We need to increase humanitarian assistance and enhance social safety nets, promote local food production in the global South, secure access to seeds, fertilizers and technology for small-scale farmers and accelerate the transformation to climate-resilient and sustainable food systems.
We are all dependent on a collective response if we are to succeed in addressing climate change and the loss of biodiversity.
Norway will honour its commitment to cut greenhouse-gas emissions and play a key role in the green transition.
We have listened to the concerns of developing countries and have decided to double our climate financing to those countries by 2026.
Within that target, we aim to at least triple our funding for climate adaptation and resilience.
Climate change affects millions of people worldwide and increases the needs of vulnerable people.
As global warming continues, weather and climate extremes will increasingly have an impact on armed conflict.
Climate and security are already closely interlinked.
The fight against climate change requires new, innovative approaches, and we must do what we can to ensure the success of the upcoming twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Egypt.
As co-Chair, Norway will work with partners across the global South to support the initiation of renewable energy transitions, reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, increase clean power and create green jobs.
Given our geography and our history, the oceans can — and will — be a vital part of the solution to climate change, food insecurity and poverty.


  
     1098     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NPL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are living indeed in a watershed moment — a moment when the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, geopolitical tensions, inequalities and climate crisis threaten our pursuit of peace and prosperity; a moment when the values of solidarity and cooperation are put to test, with trust and confidence in short supply; a moment when humankind is caught between hope and despair, unity and division, and harmony and dissension; and a moment, when the world is striving to forge a new consensus amid competing interests, priorities and challenges.
This has been followed by cascading crises marked by geopolitical divides, the disruption of supply chain and the climate emergency.
In Nepal, we are bearing the disproportionate burden of climate change and facing such climate shocks as frequent landslides, storms, floods and wildfires.
To combat the climate crisis and address vulnerabilities, we have localized adaptation plans.
While remaining fully committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we have set the ambitious target of reaching a net-zero scenario by 2045, as announced by the Prime Minister of Nepal, The Right Honourable Mr. Sher Bahadur Deuba, at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
However, climate change is a global problem, and it needs global action.
To that end, the large emitters, which account for over 80 per cent of all global emissions, must take bold steps to keep the 1.5°C climate goal alive.
The commitment of $100 billion in climate financing must turn into a reality.
The twenty- seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change needs to move from pledges into action.


  
     1099     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NRU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We come together at a critical moment created by three interconnected crises: the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and its consequences, the war in Ukraine and a tipping point in climate change.
Moreover, to address the challenges of today and tomorrow, our health system needs to be climate resilient, with the capacity for viral risk management through e-medicine, digital technology and more.
When we speak of transformation and resilience, we must prioritize the climate emergency, in which the Pacific is on the front lines.
Climate change continues to ravage our planet, and the global community has once again failed to take the actions required to curb its spread.
We can no longer continue to debate the human impact on our planet and when and if we will band together to mount a fight against the climate emergency and its undeniable security implications.
Nauru continues its call upon the Secretary-General to appoint a special representative on climate and security, and to immediately undertake an assessment of the capacity of the United Nations to respond to climate disasters.
Climate change has infiltrated every aspect of our lives, and our response must therefore be equally diverse and robust.
While we are hopeful for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we are not naive regarding the reality that the work in this arena is far from the urgency and scale required.
Major emitters are lacking in both commitment and action to reduce emissions.
Nauru, like other small island nations, has lived with the realities of climate change for some time now.
Climate change undermines and threatens the ability of Governments and institutions to deliver basic services in the short and long term.
There also remains a serious and pressing need for climate-resilient infrastructure.
Nauru faces significant delays in its port redevelopment project, a project that represents both a crucial domestic need and an international example of climate-resilient infrastructure.
We cannot expect the trajectory of global emissions to drop without access to viable energy alternatives.
Nauru remains committed to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris Agreement.
However, they are in danger of not being worth the paper they are printed on without adequate and predictable support from the international community, as Nauru and many other island nations will not be able to realize the Sustainable Development Goals or to adapt and mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change.
Nauru, like many SIDS, faces barriers to sustained economic growth due to our geographic remoteness, the small scale of our economy, vulnerabilities to climate change, external economic and financial shocks and the rules that govern development assistance.


  
     1100     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_NZL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It set us back in our fight against the crisis of climate change and progress on the Sustainable Development Goals while we looked to the health crisis that was right in front of us.
The lessons of COVID-19 are, in many ways, the same as the lessons of climate change.
Climate action will only ever be as successful as the least committed country, as they pull down the ambition of the collective.
It is why we have worked so hard within the Paris Agreement to see the action we need on climate change, while also doing our bit at home, including by putting a 1.5°C warming limit into law; increasing our nationally determined contribution to 50 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030; and quadrupling our climate finance commitment.
Whether on climate, trade, health crises or seeking peaceful solutions to war and conflict, New Zealand has always been a believer in multilateral tools.
How do we tackle climate change if people do not believe it exists?


  
     1101     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_OMN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

My country looks forward to participating actively in the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27), which will be held in Sharm el-
Climate change is one of the most prominent issues of our time, and we are now at a decisive moment.
The world is facing a real and difficult challenge with wide-ranging effects, whether rising temperatures or catastrophic floods, all of which are threats to countries’ food security.
In that regard, Oman has developed a national strategy for protecting the environment and addressing climate change to be managed in partnership with local communities, civil- society institutions and the private sector.
We have established a national committee for climate change and the protection of the ozone layer, consisting of 31 governmental agencies through which adaptation plans are implemented to mitigate the effects of climate fluctuations and to contribute to reducing carbon emissions by 7 per cent by 2030, in accordance with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
We are thereby moving towards achieving zero greenhouse-gas emissions.
My country is focused on accelerating the procedures for regulating the green hydrogen sector and encouraging investment in it, in response to global transformations aimed at reducing carbon emissions and fulfilling the world’s desire for new and multiple-use energy sources.


  
     1102     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PAK_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

I have come to explain first-hand the scale and magnitude of that climate catastrophe that has pushed one third of my country under water in a superstorm of a scale that that no one has seen in living memory.
In that ground-zero of climate change, 33 million people, including women and children, are now at high risk from health hazards, with 650,000 women giving birth underneath makeshift tarpaulins.
As we speak, millions of climate migrants are still looking for dry land on which to pitch their tents, with heart-breaking losses to their families, futures and livelihoods, gone for a long time to come.
Pakistan has never seen a starker and devastating example of the impact of global warming.
When global warming rips apart whole families and an entire country at such ferocious speed, it is time to ask, “Why?”
Our glaciers are melting fast, our forests are burning and our heat waves have surpassed the 53°C mark, making us the hottest place on the planet.
As the Secretary- General has so candidly said, hotspots like Pakistan fall in the 10 most climate-vulnerable list of countries, but emit less than 1 per cent of the greenhouse gases that are burning our planet.
At this point, I am profoundly grateful that Secretary-General Antonio Guterres visited Pakistan, where he spent time with climate refugees and mothers and children in tents and repeatedly assured us of his support and assistance.
Approximately 11 million people will be pushed further below the poverty line, while others will drift to cramped urban shelters, leaving little room for climate-smart rebuilding.
The question that should be raised here is quite simple: Why are my people paying the price of such a high level of global warming through no fault of their own?
Nature has unleashed her fury on Pakistan without looking at our carbon footprint, which is next to nothing.
The dual costs of global inaction and climate injustice are having a crippling effect on both our treasury and people, right now and over there.


  
     1103     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PAN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Panama is one of the three carbon-negative countries in the world.
President Cortizo’s energy transition agenda has strengthened Panama’s global leadership in combating
climate change.
Young people are harshly critical of the many forums, summits and declarations on climate change and the preservation of the environment and natural resources that continue to be held while emissions and deforestation increase without restraint, along with the contamination of water, aquifers, rivers and oceans.
From this rostrum, we remind the big emitters of gases, those that encourage deforestation and those that dump chemicals that pollute and kill, that it is matter of the survival of the Earth and the species that inhabit it.


  
     1104     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PER_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year, extreme heat and flooding have reached record-high levels as a result of climate change.
Greenhouse gas concentrations continue to rise.
I call especially on the industrialized nations to give a new impetus to curbing global warming.
As Heads of State, we must acknowledge that our targets for meeting our commitments to reducing new emissions already need to be seven times higher in order to achieve our goal of keeping the planet’s temperature from rising more than 1.5°C.


  
     1105     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PHL_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The first challenge is climate change.
Climate change is the greatest threat affecting our nations and peoples.
The effects of climate change are uneven and reflect a historical injustice whereby those who are least responsible suffer the most.
The Philippines, for example, is a net carbon sink.
We absorb more carbon dioxide than we emit.
Yet we are the fourth most vulnerable country to the effects of climate change.
We call on industrialized countries to immediately fulfil their obligations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to cut their greenhouse-gas emissions, provide climate financing and technology transfer for the adaptation of the most vulnerable and developing countries and lead by example.
Our biodiversity is equally important and must be protected amid the continuing challenge of climate change.


  
     1106     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PLW_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

While war may be viewed as a heart attack, the climate crisis has been like diabetes — insidious and wearing us down constantly and consistently year after year.
I would like to take this opportunity to join fellow leaders to express my country’s deepest sympathy with our brothers and sisters in Pakistan and those impacted by Hurricane Fiona with respect to the awful climate devastation they have experienced.
Climate change is not only about hurricanes and floods.
Despite the challenges of this last year, we have begun to see glimmers of hope in the fight against climate change.
Over 150,000 young people went up to Glasgow for the twenty-sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and provided much-needed pressure for leaders to take action, and after four failed Conferences of the Parties, the Glasgow Climate Pact was finally adopted.
Even major emitting countries like the United States and Australia have finally passed significant legislation to shift their domestic policies.
None of these efforts get us to 1.5°C yet, but they represent a great step forward, and we commend their efforts.
The message that we want to convey is clear: despite our small size, our remote location, our lack of access to financing and technology and the unique vulnerabilities of being a small island developing State (SIDS), we are committed to moving towards a net-zero carbon world.
As a SIDS, we thought that it was particularly important to bring people from all over the world to Palau to show them first-hand the challenges that we face as SIDS, whether it is plastic pollution, sea level rise or the impact on our fragile corals, which underpin our major economic driver of blue tourism.
The conference also highlighted the importance of ocean-based climate solutions, including shipping decarbonization, marine nature-based solutions and offshore renewable energy, in keeping the 1.5°C global warming target within reach and improving global climate resilience.
Many other partners also contributed to make the event a success for climate action.
The Pacific is disappointed that the efforts of the fifth session of the Intergovernmental Conference on Marine Biodiversity of Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction could not conclude a treaty text, as the preservation and fair and equitable sharing of benefits of biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction is long overdue as an extension of the world’s commitment to combating climate change.
The adoption of the multidimensional vulnerability index facilitates climate action and can bring equity to global financing.
We are deeply grateful for the assistance that the United States and other Governments, such as Taiwan and Japan, have provided, but we need more now, just as we need measures to combat and adapt to climate change’s rising seas.
The Taiwanese people are part of the global community and a valuable partner in combating climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     1107     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PNG_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must build on the good foundations that preceding Presidents and all of us have laid going forward, given the turmoil, uncertainty, mistrust, pain and suffering resulting from multiple crises, including the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the worsening climate crisis, the escalating socioeconomic challenges and the conflicts tearing us apart.
As the world prepares for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and despite the rallying efforts of the global community, including through pledges to cut emission levels under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the world remains on fire.
That is further compounded by destructive floods and rising sea levels — allow me to convey Papua New Guinea’s sympathies to the victims of the recent flood in Pakistan — which affect our coastal communities, including through displacement and loss of identity as a people, both in my own country and across the Pacific region and beyond, as carbon emission levels continue their destructive spiral out of control.
My country, with one of the largest standing pristine tropical rainforests in the world, is one of the few carbon-positive countries in the world.
We remove more carbon than we emit.
Over the past five years or so, we have reduced national forest emissions by 53 per cent, for a total of more than 75 million tons of United Nations-verified Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation (REDD+) credits, which will be on the market by the end of this year.
My Government has updated the Climate Management Act and this year put in place a nationally determined contribution regulation.
We now have the legislation in place needed to implement the Paris Agreement.
However, it is disheartening for small countries like Papua New Guinea that do not have a big carbon footprint to note that, despite our proactive national efforts to implement our commitments under the Paris Agreement, we seem to always get the raw end of the deal.
We have done our part, yet we have had little support from the global North, including for our submissions to the Green Climate Fund.
We need the power of sovereign carbon markets that fully comply with the Paris Agreement.
The world cannot talk about climate change without talking about forest conservation and proper land-use management.
Papua New Guinea calls for an urgent global focus to be placed on the conservation, preservation and sustainability of our global forests, including proper land-use practices, because it is only in our dear trees
in the forests that one finds the dual benefit of carbon cleansing and oxygen production.
I had the privilege of meeting His Majesty King Charles III, and the views on forests that he shared with me are the same as those I have mentioned here today, including the view that the world, especially countries whose carbon footprints on Mother Earth are the greatest, must help preserve the Earth’s forests in a manner commensurate with each country’s emission levels.
It is Papua New Guinea’s humble view that the atmospheric balance of oxygen and carbon should be prioritized as the number one focus of all humankind because therein lies the sustenance of life and the dear trees in our forests play a balancing role as created by the Creator God.
Let us not forget that there is more carbon stored in the world’s forests than in all known coal, oil and gas reserves.
In short, if we lose our rainforests, climate stability is impossible; we may as well kiss goodbye the temperature goal of 1.5C warming.
Finally, given the increasing adverse impact of climate change on our communities, I would like to reiterate Papua New Guinea’s strong support for the initiative of our Melanesian neighbour, Vanuatu, to seek an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on that existential threat.


  
     1108     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PRK_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year has seen immense human and material losses in all regions of the world, including South Asia, Western Europe and North America, due to the destructive effects of the disastrous abnormal weather resulting from the climate change.


  
     1109     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PRT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need a Security Council that incorporates a comprehensive view of security, recognizing, inter alia, the role of climate change as an accelerator of conflict — a Security Council where the African continent, and at least Brazil and India, have seats and where small countries are more fairly represented.
It is undeniable that there is a link between climate and security.
Today more than ever, we are feeling the effects of climate change — heat waves or intense cold, droughts, fires, floods and storms.
Countries, such as Portugal, that suffer from coastal erosion, increased droughts and the tragedy of forest fires clearly understand the urgency of climate action.
Neither is it necessary to explain it to countries like Pakistan, which today is suffering the truly devastating consequences of the rest of the world’s climate inaction, or to coastal countries, particularly small island nations, which see their livelihoods threatened year after year by rising sea waters.
We hope that the twenty-seventh Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), to be held in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, can be a time that leads to an inclusive transition, ensuring a more balanced allocation of climate financing between mitigation and adaptation.
Portugal has been at the forefront of the decarbonization process, having been the first to commit to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 as early as the twenty-second Conference of the States Parties to the UNFCCC, held in Marrakesh.
The sea is one of the platforms where climate is projected.
Social policies must be at the heart of our action, the development of our economies and the fight against climate change.


  
     1110     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_PRY_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We inhabit the same planet and are obligated to take care of nature and future generations.
That is why Paraguay, along with other countries, promoted the creation of a Special Rapporteur on climate change in the Human Rights Council, which will help make the true impact of this crisis visible worldwide.


  
     1111     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_QAT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Decades of pressure to stop investing in fossil fuels before securing the environmentally friendly and sustainable alternatives that we must develop have led to significant shortages in energy supplies.
Undoubtedly, climate change and the protection of the environment in general compel us to diversify energy sources as soon as possible.


  
     1112     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ROU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The challenges we face today —such as the impact of climate change and the loss of biodiversity, energy insecurity, the lack of access to food and education, and social inequities — are becoming more and more severe.
Ensuring energy security goes hand in hand with the green transition for resilient and climate-neutral economies.
The nexus between climate change and peace and security should be more prominent in our discussions, including in the Security Council.
Despite our efforts, we have not moved past the triple crisis of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
In two months’ time, we shall meet in Egypt for the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and additional commitments towards climate neutrality are necessary, along with the implementation of the decisions already made.
Raising awareness, educating future generations on environmental protection and fighting climate change is of utmost importance and a topic very close to my heart.


  
     1113     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_RWA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is in a state of turbulence, with intersecting crises growing in scale and severity, including climate change, food price inflation, conflict and uncontrolled migration.


  
     1114     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SAU_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Humankind is facing common challenges that threaten economic recovery following the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, most notably the security and availability of food and energy, supply chains, the environment and climate change challenges.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is aware of the importance of cooperation to addressing the challenges of climate change and the need to deal with its negative effects.
In that regard, we attach particular importance to implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and supporting the gradual and responsible change towards diversified energy systems and sources that are more sustainable.
We have also launched initiatives to protect the environment, promote sustainable forestation, reduce emissions by 278 million tons annually by 2030 and achieve zero carbon emissions by 2060 through the circular carbon reduction approach, in accordance with the Kingdom’s development plans and its diversified economy.
We stress the importance of investing in fossil fuels and clean techniques in the coming two decades in order to meet the growing global demand and the interests of all consumers and producers, and to save the world from the negative consequences of unrealistic policies aimed at excluding the main sources of energy without considering the negative effects on world supply chains, inflation, high energy prices, increased unemployment rates and other security and socioeconomic effects.


  
     1115     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SDN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Considering how that situation is being exacerbated by the effects of climate change, drought, floods and insufficient humanitarian assistance, we urge for a collective commitment to providing assistance, led by the relevant United Nations agencies, donor countries, brothers and friends, in support of the communities that host the refugees.


  
     1116     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SEN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Since the previous session, the world has become more dangerous and uncertain, under the combined grip of global warming, security and health perils and the war in Ukraine.
With the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Sharm El-Sheikh only a few weeks away, Africa reiterates its commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Moreover, we see adaptation funding not as aid but as a contribution by industrialized countries to a global partnership of solidarity in return for efforts by developing countries to avoid the polluting patterns that have plunged the planet into the current climate emergency.


  
     1117     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SGP_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate crisis is a clear and present threat.
This applies to pandemics; it also applies to climate change, the conservation of the oceans and all our other shared challenges.
Let me focus on just three areas in our global commons where there is an urgent need to build resilience:
First is climate change and food insecurity, global health and pandemic preparedness, and digital transformation and cybersecurity.
Climate change remains the most pressing challenge confronting humankind today, as we have seen from the more frequent occurrences of extreme weather events and the devastation that they have wrought the world over.
The continued commitment of all countries to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Glasgow Climate Pact is absolutely critical.
We also need to step up cooperation in the transition to net zero.
Singapore, as a small, low-lying and alternative-energy disadvantaged island nation, is especially vulnerable to climate change and rising sea levels.
Singapore’s impact on global emissions is infinitely small, but we take our climate action obligations very seriously.
We have just raised our climate ambition to achieve net zero emissions by or around mid-century.
A comprehensive strategy to green our economy is taking shape, and we will raise carbon taxes progressively from 2024.
We are supporting industry efforts to build the infrastructure for a voluntary carbon credit market in Asia.
Climate change, the pandemic and the war in Ukraine have all exacerbated the threat to our food security.
Secondly, we must pursue innovation and leverage technology to adapt to new challenges — for example, working together to develop climate-resilient food systems, while developing the necessary precautions on food safety.


  
     1118     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SLB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, climate change, the impact of global conflicts and domestic civil unrest have jeopardized our progress on delivering on the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In that connection, the Solomon Islands Government supports the ongoing work undertaken by the International Law Commission on the question of sea level rise and sovereignty.
We also acknowledge with appreciation the ongoing support from our bilateral and multilateral partners, including Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the European Union, the Green Climate Fund and others, for our infrastructure projects by building new roads, bridges, airports, wharves and hydropower dams.
I stand here in solidarity with my Pacific island brothers and sisters to continue our fight against climate change.
The onset of extreme temperatures, heatwaves, droughts, flooding and sea-level rise has increased the vulnerability of Pacific countries to the negative impacts of climate change.
Global financial mechanisms for disaster recovery need to be established to ensure the economic burden of recovery and building back better and stronger following rapid onset and climate-related disasters are not borne solely by countries that are in serious need of support.
Considering those challenges, the Pacific region has declared a state of climate emergency.
Sadly, we are seeing more resources spent on wars than on combating climate change.
Pacific countries have also established a Pacific Resilience Facility — a financing mechanism that aims to build the resilience and reduce the vulnerability of Pacific populations to the negative impacts of climate change.
Solomon Islands also commends the Vanuatu-led initiative requesting support from the United Nations to ask the International Court of Justice to provide an advisory opinion on climate change, which has also been strongly supported by Pacific leaders.
As the world continues to combat climate change, we ask all parties going into the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27) to set more ambitious nationally determined contributions that would put our world on the pathway to 1.5°C.
The discussions on loss and damage demand a standalone agenda at COP 27 aimed at establishing a loss and damage financing facility.


  
     1119     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SLE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our progress towards achieving the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 has been complicated by the repurposing of global development and investment finance, disruptions in production and supply chains, growing food and energy insecurity, general slowdowns in the economies of nations and the perennial adverse effects of climate change.
The adverse effects of climate change know no borders.
Global warming, unpredictable weather patterns, rising sea levels and land degradation are taking a profound toll on global food and water security.
We are informed that Africa faces disproportionate risks and costs from climate change.
We must therefore be consistent in meeting our commitments to all existing international frameworks for addressing climate change.
Fair and accessible multilateral climate financing can catalyse the global and country-specific measures and innovation necessary to build and support sustainable climate resilience.
In such efforts, the roles and interests of women and young people must be central to climate investments.


  
     1120     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SMR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, we also should not underestimate the effects of climate change and climate disasters on aggravating food insecurity.
The impact of climate change continues to be felt across the world.
Demand for coal, oil and gas rebounded with the economy in 2021 and will bring, over the current decade, an increase of global emissions by almost 14 per cent.
The interconnection of global crises—the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and armed conflicts across the globe — puts at great risk the achievement of the SDGs by 2030.


  
     1121     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SOM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our world is becoming less secure through recurring conflict, increasing international terrorism and the destructive impact of the climate change.
In the long term, we must collectively work together to ensure that we mitigate the acceleration of the dangerous and costly climate crisis by meeting the commitment to investing in and adequately financing climate adaptation in the most affected and vulnerable regions of the world, including sub-Saharan Africa.
Key areas of investment must be sustainable water management, biodiversity protection to enhance food security, climate-smart agriculture, resilient infrastructure and greater investment in renewable energy.
In Somalia, for the first time, we have established a new Ministry of Environment and Climate Change to lead the urgent process of addressing the devastating impact of our national and regional environmental deterioration.
Somalia is caught between floods and droughts annually, owing to climate change and poor infrastructure.
Our people, who have a long tradition of living harmoniously with nature and who barely contribute to the poisonous emissions warming the Earth, are the ones paying with their lives today.
We are therefore taking the matter of protecting our environment seriously because we know that climate change is real.
We also know that Somalia and the rest of the world cannot develop sustainably without jointly addressing the global climate crisis quickly and effectively, because our whole way of life and the most important job- creating productive sectors of our economy, including agriculture, livestock, fisheries and the wider blue economy, depend on the climate.
Terrorism remains a persistent and complex challenge that both contributes to and exacerbates all other crises, including food insecurity, the displacement of people from their homes and climate change.
The Somali Government is working within a complex network of challenges that include the effects of climate change and poverty.
However, given Somalia’s fragile economic situation as a recovering post-conflict State, the financing of global development priorities must be underpinned by a common international commitment to supporting countries like ours with more concessionary financing, capacity-building and investment in all areas that can strengthen resilience to today’s multiple crises, including climate change, insecurity and the provision of social protection for the most vulnerable in our societies.
For its part, the Somali Government is committed and determined to defeat international terrorism alongside all its international partners, address extreme poverty, raise the environmental consciousness of our population, mitigate the worst of the climate change impact and rebuild an inclusive, resilient and people-centred society and economy through our successful ongoing socioeconomic reform programme.


  
     1122     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SSD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In April 2016, South Sudan ratified the Paris Climate Agreement, which seeks to solidify a global response to the threat of climate change by keeping global warming to well below 2°C.
South Sudan has strategized to build on nature-based solutions and green infrastructure and to foster socioeconomic recovery pathways centred on climate change and natural disasters.
It recently became evident to us that climate change is real, with the impacts of climate change and global warming now manifesting in various part of South Sudan.
Together, we can save our planet by playing our roles and by supporting each other to mitigate the effects of climate change and come up with alternative methods and solutions based on available protocols.


  
     1123     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SUR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Meanwhile, the threats have been adding up: economic recovery from the coronavirus disease pandemic has slowed; the climate crisis is worsening, with extreme weather events, biodiversity loss and collapsing ecosystems; poverty and hunger are on the rise; and there is definitely a humanitarian crisis.
Has access to climate financing improved?
And as the leader of Suriname, a small country and one of only three carbon-negative countries in the world, I appeal to everyone today to ensure that we all uphold our firm commitment to international principles and international law when addressing global challenges and threats.
No country is immune to the climate crisis.
The Secretary-General, who visited Suriname in July, witnessed first-hand the effect of climate change on low-lying coastal States.
He lauded our nature-based solutions, such as preserving mangroves, rainforest and other essential ecosystems, and stated that the Caribbean is ground zero for the global climate emergency.
We must deliver on the $100 billion commitment to climate finance for adaptation.
In that regard, we call for support for establishing a research agenda that will help the region understand the cost of climate change for different sectors and economies and for scaling up the means of implementation, including financing, particularly adaptation financing, capacity-building and technology transfer — without technology-dumping.
We also call for the establishment of a loss-and- damage facility under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change that would provide SIDS with resources to finance the losses and damage resulting from climate change.
In that regard, I commend the Secretary-General for his efforts to make the Adaptation Fund more accessible to the countries affected by climate change through his adaptation finance initiative.


  
     1124     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SVK_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In November, we will hold the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) in Egypt.
Our greenhouse gas emissions are not falling fast enough.
How much more scorched Earth, how many millions more climate refugees, how many flood victims will it take to convince us that ignoring our commitments is no longer an option?
We are desperately behind in cutting our emissions.
Worse, we hear voices arguing that the climate crisis must wait because of increasing energy prices.
We are talking about the rising prices of commodities that we must phase out anyway to stop the planet’s warming.
Rather than bring back subsidies for coal or gas, we must transition away from them.
At this year’s COP27, we will need a significant increase of funds for lower- and middle-income countries.
Many of them contribute very little to our planet’s heating but suffer the most from its consequences.
The international cooperation we should foster has not prevented a climate catastrophe.
We must urgently deliver on our climate goals and find working rules for social media platforms to protect the fabric of our societies and the international order.


  
     1125     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SVN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

I wish to speak about peace, climate change and multilateralism today.
Nurturing and strengthening good relations among countries is also necessary to more efficiently address the challenges of our times, of which climate change is one of the most pressing.
Our common task is to preserve the planet for future generations.
Slovenia pledges special support to Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific to assist them in their efforts against biodiversity loss, water stress and climate damage.
The upcoming United Nations conferences on climate change, biodiversity and water are an excellent opportunity to commit ourselves to do more and do better.


  
     1126     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SWE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is in the midst of an accelerating climate and environmental crisis, and the effects of the ongoing pandemic continue to afflict individuals and societies around the world.
Governments and societies already struggling to cope with the consequences of climate change, conflicts and the pandemic now face even more serious challenges.
Our actions are firmly anchored in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Peace, with the SDGs, and in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which are now more important than ever.
It is time to raise our ambition and accelerate action to tackle climate change and biodiversity loss, or we will fail not only future generations but also our own.
Sweden has spearheaded the climate transition through innovation and green investments and an ambitious increase in climate aid.
Mounting evidence shows that climate change also leads to greater risks to peace and stability.
A solid foundation for advancing climate security is in place at the United Nations and in regional organizations.
We are not doing enough to tackle the climate crisis.


  
     1127     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SWZ_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The negative effects of climate change are compelling the Government to build more dams throughout the Kingdom for irrigation.


  
     1128     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SYC_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Never have we faced challenges of such magnitude: a world in deep crisis, climate inaction, the aftermath of the pandemic, food insecurity, the rising costs of energy and the war in Ukraine.
Food and energy security must be apprehended within the context of climate change.
We are at the cusp of an ecological collapse spurred by climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss, largely instigated by irresponsible human activities and unfettered emissions — a situation that greatly threatens the inalienable right of all humans to a healthy environment.
The reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have made clear that the window of opportunity to effectively address climate change is rapidly closing, with dire consequences for humankind and ecosystems.
As floods, heat waves and fires in the Western world dominate the news and our social media feeds, let us not neglect or forget that the impact of slow-onset events like sea-level rise pose an existential threat to small island developing States.
We must also confront the gross injustice of having citizens of States least responsible for the unravelling climate-induced disaster pay for the loss and damage caused by others.
Even as we bear the impact of climate change, our environment is suffering immensely from the consequences of pollution.
By implementing our marine spatial plan, we have not only set aside 30 per cent of our exclusive economic zone for protection and sustainable use, but also have helped consolidate progress towards our commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, as well as the SDGs and the Convention on Biological Diversity.
The marine spatial plan exemplifies how climate action, ocean conservation, sustainable development and building resilience can be achieved by a SIDS, with immutable special circumstances, in an integrated manner.
Building on that, Seychelles has committed to protecting at least 50 per cent of its seagrass ecosystems by 2025, and 100 per cent by 2030, greatly contributing to ecosystem preservation and carbon sequestration.


  
     1129     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_SYR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Wars, conflicts and threats to international peace and security are increasing along with terrorism and chaos, while the global economy and food security are at risk and climate change is accelerating.
It was subjected to serious challenges in terms of politics, security, economics, health, nutrition and climate change.


  
     1130     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TCD_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We hope to see a further consolidation of that multilateral cooperation, particularly in addressing other persistent and recurrent crises and challenges such as wars, terrorism, climate change, health and food crises and poverty.
The international commitments made to that effect through the 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the New Urban Agenda and all other international agendas must be honoured if we are to achieve the ultimate goal of ensuring that no one is left behind and having a planet that is fit to live on and can be passed on safely and proudly to succeeding generations.
I also want to call for the swift implementation of the facilities granted to my country, Chad, within the framework of the initiatives that various multilateral bodies have taken in order to enable us to respond to the pressing needs of our people, who already face the accumulating challenges of economy, humanitarian emergencies, insecurity caused by terrorist threats, the negative effects of climate change, the food crisis and others.
In terms of security and development, the situation in the Sahel and the Lake Chad region has become extremely worrisome and continues to deteriorate due to many factors, including institutional changes in many countries of the region, the dismantling of military counter-terrorism units, the effects of climate change leading to increased food insecurity due to the lack of an appropriate response, uncontrolled illegal migration and unchecked growth in illicit trafficking.


  
     1131     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TGO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The other major challenge facing humankind is climate change.
The Togolese Government is firmly committed to ensuring the sustainable management of natural resources and resilience to the impact of climate change.
We very much hope that the upcoming twenty- seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Egypt from 7 to 18 November, will help to bring environmental conservation back to the centre of the international agenda by urging stakeholders to honour the financing pledges needed to address global warming.


  
     1132     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_THA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

This global food insecurity is due to conflicts, climate change, disruptions to supply chains and uneven recovery from COVID-19.
To that end, Thailand is ready to work with the international community in order to contain the triple planetary crises of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
In tackling climate change, Thailand stands firm in our pledge at last year’s twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero greenhouse-gas emissions by 2065.
And with adequate support, Thailand will be able to increase its nationally determined contributions or targets to 40 per cent while achieving net-zero greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050.
Thailand will submit our nationally determined contributions and long-term low greenhouse-gas emission development strategies that reflect those goals ahead of the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27), to be held in Sharm El-Sheikh.
I urge developed countries to keep their promise of providing financial, technological and capacity-building support to developing countries and to deliver on the climate-financing goal of $100 billion annually as soon as possible.
Equal attention should be paid to mitigation and adaptation.
Thailand stands ready to work with Egypt and all partners at COP27 in that regard.


  
     1133     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TJK_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, natural disasters, food insecurity and the ongoing impact of the pandemic, among other things, are adding further fuel to the fire.
I would like to address three additional topics my delegation feels are very important to our implementation of our road map — the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, water and climate change, and peace and security.
However, despite the substantial progress made towards their achievement, there are significant risks, such as climate-related hazards and disasters, that could slow or reverse Tajikistan’s path towards the realization of the 2030 Agenda and threaten agricultural productivity and food security.
The impact of climate change on water resources is another crucial topic that requires our concerted efforts.
To that end, Tajikistan is actively promoting an integrated approach to addressing water and climate issues, including within the Water and Climate Coalition.


  
     1134     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TKM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In Central Asia, due to objective reasons, climate change and water issues are of critical importance and, in some cases, determining factors in the development of regional processes, with a significant impact on the general situation, the implementation of socioeconomic development plans and efforts to address serious environmental issues.
Based on the positions of Turkmenistan on climate change adaptation and mitigation, presented in November 2021 at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Glasgow, as well as those practically considered in multilateral consultations within the framework of the Bonn Climate Change Conference in Bonn in June, Turkmenistan is conducting preparatory work for the establishment in Ashgabat of a regional centre for climate technology for the countries of Central Asia.
At the same time, noting the nationally determined contribution of Turkmenistan, adopted in May 2022 in the context of fulfilling its obligations under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, Turkmenistan intends to step up its efforts to achieve the goals outlined in that document, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the promotion of the Global Methane Pledge initiative.


  
     1135     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TLS_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like almost every country on the planet, Timor- Leste has endured multiple climate change catastrophes, a prolonged dry season followed by floods, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and now the global economic impact of the confrontation between Russia, Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Debt levels now limit our ability to protect the weakest and most vulnerable from the effects of rising prices, let alone to increase our efforts to address the climate emergency that threatens our very existence.


  
     1136     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TON_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

With urgency we must, among so many other issues, overcome the severe economic, financial and social impacts of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) global pandemic, and accelerate action on climate change, ocean health, energy transformation, the sustainable use of natural resources, cybersecurity — and I could go on.
At half-time, the reality is that the existential threats posed by climate change, pandemics and conflict have increased.
Climate change continues to be the single greatest existential threat facing the blue Pacific.
The adverse impacts of climate change make Tonga the third most vulnerable country in the world.
Climate change is an existential threat to people and our desire for international peace and security.
We must limit global warming to 1.5°C.
Whether it is sea-level rise, loss of territory or the mass migration it leads to, this is a trigger for violence and a threat to peace and security.
We continue to note with grave concern the threat posed by sea- level rise to our blue Pacific.
We commit ourselves to ensuring that climate change-induced sea-level rise does not challenge our maritime zones delineated under UNCLOS, as reflected in the 2021 Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the Face of Climate Change-Related Sea-Level Rise.
We note the invaluable work of the International Law Commission, in particular the Study Group on sea-level rise, for its work in advancing deliberations on this topic with a view to strengthening the UNCLOS framework, particularly in addressing the modern realities of sea-level rise.
Vanuatu’s initiative to seek an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the obligations of states under international law to protect the rights of present and future generations against the adverse impacts of climate change in order to clarify the legal consequences of climate change.
The initiative of Tuvalu and Antigua and Barbuda to establish a commission of SIDs on climate change and international law that will be tasked with developing and implementing fair and just global environmental norms and practices is also a step in the right direction.


  
     1137     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TTO_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, climate commitments made by developed countries are definitely not on track.
Accordingly, Trinidad and Tobago calls for the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement.
A dedicated facility to address loss and damage under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change financial mechanism is an absolute necessity.


  
     1138     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TUN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have found in the Agenda and in other United Nations references that we have supported and engaged in — such as the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development — a path towards common solutions within a framework of solidarity and parity so that no one is left behind.
Unfortunately, however, many peoples today are threatened to be left behind as a result of international financial structural imbalances and limited international solidarity amid exacerbated risks and threats of disputes, conflicts, political crises and unprecedented natural disasters due to climate change, in addition to the terrible flows of irregular migration and the increase in the number of refugees, not to mention the millions of people threatened by famine, malnutrition and extreme poverty.


  
     1139     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TUR_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Last year, we ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in order to demonstrate the extent of our resolve in the fight against climate change and our aim of becoming a zero-emission country by 2053.
We also convened the sixteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Istanbul, which showed our willingness to become pioneers in the fight against climate change.
Tiirkiye is willing to demonstrate its willingness to do that, as we have done with the pandemic and the climate change crisis.


  
     1140     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TUV_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are indeed encouraged by the priorities of his presidency, and we look forward to working closely with him as we continue to grapple with economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, tackle climate change and strive to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Tuvalu strongly supports the readmission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the United Nations as a founding Member of the Organization, and the restoration of its active participation in United Nations specialized agencies, including the World
Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Climate change and its consequential sea-level rise remain the single greatest existential threat my country faces, underscoring the urgent need to limit global warming to 1.5°C through rapid, deep and sustained reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions.
With an average land elevation of no more than 2 metres above sea level, my country will succumb to sea-level rise.
The report issued last year by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes clear that, with the current global-warming trend, we are destined to miss the 1.5°C target of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The climate crisis is creating an increasingly uncertain future for people in most parts of the world.
Other Pacific island countries on the front line of climate change may have a few decades longer, but our final destination is no longer a matter of guesswork.
Most societies see climate change as mainly about cutting carbon emissions or mitigating future impacts.
Tuvalu and its Pacific neighbours have done nothing to cause climate change.
Carbon emissions combined across the entirety of the Pacific islands amount to less than 0.03 per cent of the world’s total, and even less if we are speaking of historical emissions.
Major economies, which contribute the most to greenhouse gas emissions, cannot be oblivious and do nothing.
People everywhere, across all ages and walks of life, are demanding leadership on climate change, especially from those most able to provide it.
Tuvalu is an acid test for such leadership because, if the international community allows an entire country to disappear as a result of climate change, what hope will be possible for anyone else?
The precious coral that supports our tourism and nurtures our fish-stock perishes as the ocean warms and acidifies.
Despite international agreements and repeated commitments, global greenhouse-gas emissions continue to rise, with many countries still pursuing a future fuelled by coal, oil and gas.
Current international instruments such as the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness do not cover our situation, nor do the United Nations various efforts to address climate change.
Agreements reached at its annual summits, including the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Glasgow last year, cover a wide range of issues like targets for cutting emissions or commitments for international finance to address impacts.
We need a global settlement that guarantees nation States, such as Tuvalu and the Marshall Islands, a permanent existence beyond the inhabitable lifetime of our atoll homes, irrespective of the onslaught of climate change and sea-level rise.
We neither castigate nor demand charity, but we do ask for generosity of spirit, support and justice that recognize our reality and our grave concern about the potential eradication of our atoll nations by rising sea levels in our part of the world.


  
     1141     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_TZA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

This Assembly is convening at a critical point, when the world is engulfed in dangerous flames ranging from conflicts and mounting geopolitical tensions, devastating effects of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, food and energy insecurity, environmental carnage and extreme climate-change-related events, to barriers to education, technology and opportunity for shared prosperity.
With respect to climate change, we are indeed at a tipping point.
The United Republic of Tanzania appreciates all individual efforts and other collective measures taken thus far to implement interventions geared at upscaling mitigation and adaptation as stipulated in the Kyoto Protocol of 1997 and the Paris Agreement of 2015.
However, despite the efforts, we are observing unprecedented changes across the whole climate system in every region.
Tanzania has put forward ambitious targets on both adaptation and mitigation through nationally determined contributions (NDCs).
With the help of the international community, we are committed to continually updating our NDCs and making important progress to tackle climate change.
Yet, unless there are immediate, rapid and large-scale reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions,
limiting warming to at least 2°C will be elusive.
As much as we remain committed, most developing countries have insufficient fiscal space and weak debt- sustainability status to address increasing demand for climate-resilience interventions.
Addressing the climate crisis therefore requires reliable access to climate finance.
It is on this note, that Tanzania calls on the international community to live up to its commitments made under the Paris Agreement.
Enhanced capacity building, technology transfer and support for adaptation and mitigation measures, as well as the creation of an independent loss-and-damage financial facility must be implemented in order to scale up the fight against climate change.
At this point, I must emphasize that Tanzania and the rest of Africa need a just transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy.
We also call upon transparency in the conduct of carbon-credit markets so that Africa benefits fairly from our earnest effort to take care of the carbon sinks that we are holding for the world.


  
     1142     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_UGA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is a timely reminder of the urgent need to strengthen international cooperation, collaboration and solidarity so that the world may take transformative actions to address the common challenges that include, inter alia, poverty, health, pandemics, climate change, food insecurity and biodiversity loss.
Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges of our time.
Our collective effort to fight climate change is an irreversible process that must continue.
However, we must note that, despite contributing an insignificant amount of global greenhouse-gas emissions, the African continent, like many developing regions of the world, suffers the effects of climate change to a disproportionate degree.
Moreover, as His Excellency President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni has said before, the climate change problem is also the result of irresponsible and sometimes greedy human actions.
It is regrettable and hypocritical that some of the regions and nations that mismanaged the environment and are disproportionately responsible for global warming have embarked on a rigorous campaign to thwart the efforts of other countries to responsibly and sustainably develop their oil and gas sectors.
Uganda has continued to scale up investments in climate adaptation and mitigation measures, specifically with regard to increasing access to clean energy in
order to enhance production, as well as increasing forest and wetland cover, among other interventions.
Climate change action must uphold the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and be consistent with a country’s national context.
We therefore urge developed countries to fully deliver, in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, on the commitments to the goal of providing $100 billion per year to assist developing countries in the climate change actions they take to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change.


  
     1143     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_URY_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Although its outcome did not meet everyone’s expectations, the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26), held in Glasgow, in November 2021, saw the achievement of several promising results.
Furthermore, it was clear that countries have not given up on the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
The discussions at COP26, in Glasgow, will allow for further debate in other contexts in the near future.
We hope that the high level of ambition will be maintained by all countries and that the promise to muster the financial resources necessary to support adaptation and mitigation measures against climate change will be kept.
In that regard, I would like to renew Uruguay’s support for the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and our firm commitment to achieving its objectives and its concrete targets.


  
     1144     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_USA_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

As I said last year (see A/76/PV.3), the United States is opening an era of relentless diplomacy to address the challenges that matter most to people’s lives — all people’s lives — including tackling the climate crisis, as the previous speaker spoke to; strengthening global health security; and feeding the world — I repeat — feeding the world.
From the day I came to office, we have led with a bold climate agenda.
We rejoined the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, convened major climate summits, helped deliver critical agreements on the twenty- sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and helped get two thirds of the world’s gross domestic product on track in order to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
And now I have signed a historic piece of legislation here in the United States that includes the biggest, most important climate commitment we have ever made in the history of our country: $369 billion allocated to climate change.
That includes allocating tens of billions of dollars for new investments in offshore wind and solar energy, doubling down on zero-emission vehicles, increasing energy efficiency and supporting clean manufacturing.
Our Department of Energy estimates that this new law will reduce United States emissions by one gigaton a year by 2030, while unleashing a new era of clean- energy-powered economic growth.
We all know that we are already living in a climate crisis.
That is the human cost of climate change — and it is growing, not lessening.
Therefore, as I announced last year, in order to meet our global responsibility, my Administration is working with our Congress to deliver more than $11 billion a year to international climate financing to help lower- income countries implement their climate goals and ensure a just energy transition.
The key part of that will be the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience plan, which will help half a billion people, especially vulnerable countries, to adapt to the impacts of climate change and build resilience.
Let this therefore be the moment when we find within ourselves the will to turn back the tide of climate devastation and unlock a resilient, sustainable and clean energy economy to preserve our planet.
The United States will work with every nation, including its competitors, to solve global problems like climate change.
Climate diplomacy is not a favour to the United States or any other nation, and walking away from it hurts the entire world.


  
     1145     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_UZB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The global climate shocks, the growing shortage of natural and water resources, and the spread of infectious diseases all contribute to the aggravation of conflicts and the emergence of humanitarian crises, and they also threaten the foundation of life.
Today the negative consequences of climate change are acutely apparent in our region.
We stand ready to actively participate in multilateral efforts to promote the topical issues of the green agenda and the processes that curb climate change.
Uzbekistan has assumed the additional obligation of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and is implementing a comprehensive strategy for the transition to a green economy and the development of renewable energy.


  
     1146     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_VAT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

In addition to the misery caused by violence and cruelty and the anxiety arising from the threat of nuclear escalation, our world continues to face the challenges of climate change, mixed migration and the ongoing coronavirus disease pandemic, while food insecurity and water scarcity now affect large portions of the global population.
Additionally, the war has also exposed the vulnerability of short-sighted energy policies that rely exclusively on the single source of fossil fuel, rather than developing clean and sustainable alternatives.
Our common home continues to be gravely affected by the adverse impacts of climate change.
Indeed, we have grown so used to hearing of extreme weather events, and yet those phenomena are clear signs of our failure to address climate change.
Moreover, multilateral environmental agreements have already laid out obligations for States parties that would prove effective in tackling the threat posed by climate change.
In that regard, when the international community gathers at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Sharm El Sheikh, it is to be hoped that there will be the political will to take more decisive and transformative decisions to protect the environment by accelerating global climate action through stronger mitigation measures, scaled-up adaptation efforts and enhanced flows of appropriate finance.
On this issue, I am pleased to note that the Holy See, acting in the name and on behalf of the Vatican City State, recently deposited its instruments of accession both to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to contribute to the efforts of all States to work together to respond effectively to challenges posed by climate change.


  
     1147     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_VCT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

We identify here and now those of centrality and urgency: irresponsible and dangerous human-made climate change; a dominant economic and trading system, awash with antagonistic contradictions, which has delivered unacceptable burdens to the poor and the weak, on the one hand, and benefits in abundance to the rich and the strong, on the other; unnecessary and unwise conflicts and declared and undeclared wars, which subvert the settled norms and precepts of international law and contribute to economic hardship and immense suffering globally; avoidable public health emergencies, including pandemics, and the distorted, uneven responses thereto; and the dangerous vanities, delusional vainglories and hubris of men and women in power, particularly in the global centres of
imperialism and in the locales of those intoxicated by the quest for hegemony.
Some major planks of it are concerted global action on climate change, including sufficient resources for adaptation and mitigation; the availability of optimal financing for development, including the roll-out of a multi-dimensional vulnerability index, a compensation mechanism for loss and damage and a special and meaningful carve-out for SIDS in international trading arrangements; an end to unacceptable weaponizing of the financial system; appropriate reform of the United Nations to reflect the interests of SIDS; and effective implementation of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, particularly where they relate to hunger, poverty and inequality.


  
     1148     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_VEN_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate crisis aggravates the food crisis, the health crisis deepens the social crisis, the energy crisis intensifies the economic crisis, and the latter endangers world peace.
The climate crisis, which is already irreversible, could be the confirmation that a change of model is imminent.


  
     1149     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_VNM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global military expenditure surged to a record high $2.1 trillion, while the international community failed to mobilize $100 billion for climate actions.
The climate crisis and other non-traditional security risks threaten our very existence.
Major United Nations and international agendas, especially the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and climate actions, must not be put on hold due to isolated disagreements among countries.
Viet Nam is sparing no effort to realize our commitment to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050, an ambitious goal given the level of development and technology capacity of Viet Nam.
We lead efforts to promote the rights of vulnerable groups in the context of climate change.


  
     1150     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_VUT_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those challenges are compounded by an existential climate crisis that is already devastating our economies and ecosystems.
In the past few years we have witnessed record heat, wildfires, severe hurricanes, coral bleaching, rising sea levels, prolonged droughts and record flooding.
We are experiencing the debilitating consequences of the climate crisis every day, and the world is now demanding more ambitious action on climate at every level.
Our young people are terrified of the future world we are handing to them through expanded fossil-fuel dependency, and we are compromising intergenerational trust and equity.
Fundamental human rights are being violated, as we begin measuring climate change not in degrees Celsius or tons of carbon but in human lives.
And that is why the nations of the blue Pacific continent are leading a global initiative to bring climate change to the International Court of Justice, the only principal organ of the United Nations that has not yet been given an opportunity to weigh in on the climate crisis.
We believe that bringing climate change to the Court is a global public good that will further support the progressive development of international law.
In this very Hall, working in solidarity with Member States, we will ask the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion on existing obligations under international law to protect the rights of present and future generations against the adverse effects of climate change.
We believe that legal clarity from the world’s highest court will help to spur even greater climate action and strengthen the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Taking climate change to the International Court of Justice via the General Assembly is not a silver bullet for increasing climate action, but just one tool to get us
closer to the end goal of a safe planet for humankind.
The leaders of the Pacific islands continue to show that they are seeking higher levels of climate ambition and collective action.
That is why apart from the International Court of Justice, we are supporting several other tools to battle the existential threat of climate change.
I acknowledge and commend the work of the Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law, led by Antigua and Barbuda, Tuvalu and Palau, to bring to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea the issue of climate change as it relates to the law of the sea.
We call for the development of a fossil-fuel non-proliferation treaty to phase down coal, oil and gas production in line with the goal of limiting warming to 1.5°C and enable a just global transition for every worker, community and nation with fossil-fuel dependence.
It will be critical to ensure that States revise and enhance their nationally determined contributions to the Paris Agreement, as Vanuatu did last month according to its agreement in the Glasgow Climate Pact at the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
As is clear, we are leaving no stone unturned as we seek solutions to the climate crisis, and I particularly call on Member States to support Vanuatu and our global coalition as we bring an International Court of Justice climate change draft resolution before the General Assembly this session.
The recovery is also threatened by climate change and severe weather patterns, as we are about to enter the cyclone season.


  
     1151     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_WSM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we take stock of the global challenges we face, we highlight the need for sustainable measures to address economic recovery following the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and urge all nations to resolve and work towards peace and security, enhance resilience from climate change impacts and achieve our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda.
Together, we must elevate our actions with a sense of urgency to address the climate emergency or our planet will be lost to us and to future generations.
Yet no one empathizes with the war climate is waging on atoll islanders watching their maritime boundaries disappear fast with sea-level rise.
There is a need to strengthen capacity-building at all levels, enhance data and information collection and storage through national and regional climate change portals, as well as invest in robust systems and processes, including reporting and verification, and knowledge brokerage.
Climate change remains our number one priority.
The big polluters and emitters have a moral obligation and responsibility to
meet their commitments ahead of the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27), because they hold the key to our achieving the 1.5°C promise of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We call on all parties to commit to more ambitious nationally determined contributions to meet the Paris Agreement promise, as we are all part of the solution.
Our global commitment to implementing the Paris Agreement is critical.
Even if warming is limited to 1.5°C, SIDS will continue to incur severe loss and damage.
We must therefore promote recovery investments that are climate-smart, resilient and in line with net-zero emissions by 2050.
We are at the doorstep of COP27.
Recent climate events are transboundary and drive home the reality that no country is immune to the impacts of climate change.
Our relentless need to extract resources from nature is causing disruptions, propelling climate change, destroying nature and raising pollution levels.
We must therefore continue to advance work on the ocean-climate nexus, such as by empowering women, girls and youth with relevant knowledge and skills to contribute to the health of the ocean.
The pledges and commitments made at those two conferences and at COP26 are inconsequential if they are not delivered on time to effect actions on the ground.
Together with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and COP27, 2022 is a critical year for aligning action to tackle the climate emergency and addressing the threats posed by biodiversity loss.
The Pacific SIDS subscribe to the position that preserving maritime zones and the rights and entitlements that flow from them give expression not only to the foundational principles of equity and stability, but also to the notion of climate justice deeply rooted in human rights and the principles of international law.
Samoa pledges its support to the Vanuatu initiative to seek an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on climate change.
The increased acidification of our ocean is already destroying entire reef ecosystems.
The global food system is at a critical stage, made worse by the COVID-19 pandemic, the onslaught of climate change and the ongoing war in Ukraine.
That will be key to addressing the rising burden of non-communicable diseases (NCDs), which represent the single largest cause of premature mortality in the Pacific countries, including Samoa.
Those are primarily non-conventional in nature, ranging from climate to environmental and resource security, human and cybersecurity, and transnational crimes.
COVID-19 and climate change have uprooted and even reversed hard- fought development gains.
However, we must persist to meet the SDGs, as they provide the best option for a brighter future and countering the threats posed by the climate crisis.
Our experiences with COVID-19 and the ongoing fight with climate change reinforce our conviction of the importance of technology and online distance learning to provide access to quality education for all.


  
     1152     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_YEM_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

It also brought epidemics and floods related to climate change, causing death, destruction and the collapse of our protection network and governmental care.


  
     1153     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ZAF_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global solidarity is also required if we are to meet other pressing challenges, such as energy and food insecurity, climate change and the devastation caused by conflicts, including the existential threat of nuclear weapons.
Working with international partners, South Africa is developing its Just Energy Transition Plan in order to significantly reduce harmful emissions in our country.
While Africa is the region least responsible for the climate crisis, it finds itself at the epicentre of its worst impacts.
We should therefore emerge from the twenty-seventh Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27), in Egypt, with an agreement that contains enhanced and balanced actions on adaptation, mitigation and financing.
In addition, we must agree at COP 27 on a mechanism for loss and change.
In South Africa, our Cabinet has approved wide-ranging policies to ensure that we can meet our newly determined climate-change targets.
We have established a climate finance task team to lead and coordinate negotiations with international partner groups in order to give effect to the Just Energy Transition Partnership, which seeks to address South Africa’s investment needs in infrastructure with the aim of facilitating our phase-down of coal so as to ensure that no one is left behind.


  
     1154     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ZMB_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those challenges include the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic; climate change; the war in Ukraine and its associated effects on and disruptions to supply chains; food insecurity around the world; and high commodity and energy prices, as well as the overall high cost of living.
The risks of further inequality are also real, especially for our developing countries, whose capacity to adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change is inadequate, sadly, in spite of our insignificant carbon footprint.
That should encourage the meaningful engagement of young people in diverse ways, such as in political representation, access to lifelong skills training and education, support for youth innovation and entrepreneurship and indeed in decision-making in all areas of life, including climate change and environmental protection.
The adverse effects of climate change have continued to ravage our planet.
In addressing the emerging global climate crisis, I would like to point to a recent situation in Zambia, where in a single season one half of the country experienced total crop failure due to extreme drought while the other half experienced floods.
Those are the negative effects of climate change.
Such extreme weather events are a
timely reminder of the grave consequences of climate change.
Without a doubt, we need robust solutions and cohesion in our approach at the global and regional levels to address the effects of climate change.
As Chair of the African Group of Negotiators on Climate Change, Zambia calls for enhanced global efforts to address the issue, which should include increased financial support for countries with limited resources to mitigate and adapt to the negative effects of climate change.
Zambia has mainstreamed green growth and climate-change proofing in its current national development plan, which has articulated broad policy measures for transitioning Zambia into a climate-resilient and inclusive green economy over time.


  
     1155     
   
FILE: UNGA77_2022_ZWE_77_2022_CLIMATE.txt
  

Meanwhile, the scourges of conflict and climate change have become major drivers of migration and refugees.
The ever-looming threat associated with the “triple C crisis” of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), conflict and climate change has placed upon us an enormous responsibility to confront these interlocking challenges by strengthening multilateralism and solidarity.
To that end, the climate change conundrum has continued to be an albatross.
The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change should remain the primary platforms for negotiating our collective global response to climate change.
All measures taken to achieve the targets and commitments set under the Paris Agreement have to be implemented.
Financing for climate change has remained inadequate, leaving the scope for effective and just transition to renewable energy among developing countries under serious threat.
It is our hope that at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Egypt later this year, the developed countries will deliver more concrete action on climate change, not just for mitigation targets, but also in relation to adaptation, loss and damage, climate-specific finance, technology transfer and capacity-building.
In our case, Zimbabwe is making concerted and deliberate efforts to integrate climate action into our national policies, strategies and planning.
The provision of technical extension services for improved land and water use has seen the widespread adoption of climate-smart agricultural innovations, with evident upward increase of incomes among communal and smallholder farmers, as well as women and youth in agriculture.


  
     1156     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_AGO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

This important instrument, which will be the basis of cooperation between the OEACP and the European Union, lays the foundation for actions in a wide range of areas, with a particular focus on environmental sustainability and climate change, human and social development and migration and mobility.
I would also like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about the issue of climate change, which is currently a central concern for humankind.
The international community must do its utmost to fulfil the promises made at the two most recent Conferences of the Parties on climate finance, so that at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change summit, to be held in the United Arab Emirates, that issue no longer takes up a significant part of the agenda and we can focus concretely on the need to urgently implement the measures to be taken to reduce polluting gases, deforestation and global warming and.


  
     1157     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ALB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

in line with our nationally determined climate contributions.
In the face of climate change, that challenge runs like a red thread through the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.


  
     1158     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_AND_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

“[t]he era of global warming has ended; the era of global boiling has arrived...
Climate change is here.
We must no longer look for subterfuges or deny the obvious — greenhouse-gas emissions caused by the unlimited consumption of natural resources have led our planet to exhaustion, which has never been more obvious than it was this summer.
The extreme temperatures that caused more than 61.000 deaths in Europe in 2022.
the wave of fires on the North American continent and the Mediterranean coast, and El Nino have become recurrent phenomena that desiccate the world, make the land less cultivable and push people to abandon their place of origin because environmental degradation has made them climate refugees and condemned them to live far from home.
We humans are the culprits of climate change, which is why the solutions to stop it will come not from nature itself, which we are degrading, but from our ability to change the model of production and organization of our societies.
It may be too late to avoid certain consequences, which are already unfortunately irreversible, but not to slow down others and prevent the global temperature from increasing by more than 1.5°C by the end of the century.
major transformations and social and economic mutations are needed, because fighting and understanding climate change is not a purely scientific or technocratic question to be left in the hands of experts; it is.
Andorra is a high mountain country and particularly sensitive to climate change, which seriously threatens our biodiversity, our water cycle and even, ultimately, our way of life.
We have advocated for the particular vulnerability of mountain regions around the world to receive specific attention in international forums devoted to climate change.
That fight that cannot be won without clearly focusing on the energy transition, one of the global challenges that our country must also face and that clearly responds to our international and national commitment to our citizens to moving us towards carbon neutrality.
Andorra’s accession as a member of the Carbon Neutrality Coalition allows us to learn and share experiences with other member States.
We were pioneers in the implementation of a green tax by establishing a carbon price of €30 per ton.
After almost eight decades of existence, the United Nations has allowed us to learn many lessons in many areas, from maintaining peace to the fight against climate change.
This is how we Andorrans believe that we must concentrate our efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, the fight against climate change and the provision of quality education to all inhabitants of the planet, with the assistance of the institutions of governance — in sum.


  
     1159     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ARE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

and climate change and its disasters.
I would emphasize that the interplay among those conflicts and other serious challenges, particularly climate change, food and energy security and water crises, can bring about significant consequences for future generations.
The climate crisis is at a critical juncture in our world today.
The result of the first global stocktaking only confirms how far off-track we are in implementing the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
To keep the 1.5°C target within reach, we need to undertake a radical change.
In that spirit, the United Arab Emirates will host the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in almost two months’ time.
The action plan for the conference will focus on four main axes, namely, expediting an orderly and just transition in the energy sector, advancing climate financing mechanisms, enhancing livelihoods and protecting individuals based on a transparent and inclusive framework.
We must restore hope and be optimistic regarding our ability to deal with climate change.
That would require improving the international financial structure, encouraging the private sector to finance climate action, ensuring the fulfilment of pledges by donors and fully operationalizing the loss and damage fund.
Global Government agencies should also fulfil their responsibilities to tackle climate change.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend an open invitation to the world to actively participate in the conference and develop collective solutions to achieve a substantial shift in confronting climate change that allows us to move our focus from negotiations to achieving tangible results in pursuit of a better and more sustained future through consensus and inclusivity.
By addressing climate change, we can alleviate the food insecurity crisis.


  
     1160     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ARG_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Meanwhile, the climate crisis is subjecting our planet to all kinds of inclement events.
We are facing the challenge of feeding a growing world population in critical climatic conditions.
The climate crisis is a reality that has modified temperatures and atmospheric phenomena around the world, imposing restrictions and obstacles to development.


  
     1161     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ATG_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are caught in a vortex of skyrocketing prices, overwhelming debts and the undeniable and increasing frequency of climate disasters.
That is why Antigua and Barbuda has embarked on strategies, building alliances with the willing to counter the threats we face from the impacts of climate change and the failure of the international financial institutions and their policymakers to respond to the urgent needs of our peoples.
One of those initiatives which is currently taking place, was initiated two years ago in the margins of the twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26) in Glasgow by the Prime Minister of Tuvalu.
Frustrated by the lip service being paid by the world’s major emitters and the broken promises of every previous COP meeting, we decided that we would seek an advisory opinion from the International Tribunal of the Law of the Sea (ITLOS).
concerning the obligation of States to combat pollution linked to climate change and its ensuing marine repercussions, such as rising ocean temperatures, sea-level rise and ocean acidification.
Joined by other small island States, we co-founded the Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law (COSIS).
The ocean is also a vital carbon sink.
With increasing ocean and terrestrial temperatures reaching record highs this summer, literally burning the planet and simultaneously causing unprecedented storms, flooding and droughts, all nations must act now to safeguard the oceans as a critical component of the Earth’s climate system.
Antigua and Barbuda and the other members of COSIS will also stand with the General Assembly in its decision, initiated by Vanuatu, to seek an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the obligations of States with respect to climate change.
SIDs, though not the poorest countries, are extremely vulnerable to climate and other shocks, and lack resilience due to structural problems of limited human and financial resources, lack of economies of scale and higher costs due to their isolation from major manufacturing hubs.
We are grappling with the impacts of global phenomena, from the lingering effects of the coronavirus disease to climate change and the international economic and financial repercussions of Russia’s incursion into Ukraine.
The truth is unavoidable — many major greenhouse gas-emitting countries have not met their commitments.
The previously set boundary — a temperature rise of no more than 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels — will be breached on the current trajectory.
requiring an urgent commitment to reducing emissions.
Small island States’ capacity to adjust and to build resilience cannot keep pace with the fast occurrence of extreme climate events.
The twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Dubai will be crucial for the future of the planet.
Not only does COP28 come at a time when the world is witnessing climate chaos, but the summit is particularly important because it will include a global stocktake.
Countries will assess how far they have come on cutting planet-heating pollution.
Eight years after the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, global progress has been far from sufficient.
The world is currently not in line with the temperature targets outlined in the Paris Agreement.
According to the European Union’s Copernicus Climate Change Service, this year’s June-to-August period was not only the warmest since 1940.
but it also saw temperatures soaring towards 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
Therefore, what was already a crucial matter for action at COP28 has now become an imperative for action, and that is the Loss and Damage Fund for which small island States have been praying, pleading and literally begging — not that we should be begging.
We must recall that all that happened at COP27 last year is that the world’s greatest polluters agreed, only at the last minute, that such a fund was important.
What we got was the formation of a transitional committee to make recommendations for consideration at COP28.
Now we must insist at COP28 that the Loss and Damage Fund be made operational and adequately funded.
If COP28 fails in that critical mission, it risks undermining global trust and potentially sabotaging cooperative efforts on myriad global challenges.
Antigua and Barbuda unequivocally asserts that climate justice and reparatory justice are deeply intertwined.
It is essential for the Assembly to understand that climate justice is not a stand-alone concern.
It is unjust that the countries that paid the highest human price are bearing the heaviest climate burden.
We speak of financial justice and of climate justice, but our cries, it seems, echo in a vast void.


  
     1162     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_AUS_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate is changing faster than our combined efforts to stop it.
The most tourism-dependent region in the world, the Caribbean, faces the loss of half its tourism revenue because of extreme weather, and nowhere is the climate threat more profound than in the Pacific.
Australia is supporting the region’s transition to renewable energy, helping countries to build climate resilience and access our increased climate finance contributions.
Australia is sharing our innovations in climate adaptation in the Pacific and beyond.
Climate is far from the only crisis the world faces.
All United Nations officials, from the Secretary-General down, must guard against dilution, because the approaching climate tipping point means we simply cannot afford ongoing unsustainable development, nor will we ever maximize our development while leaving people behind or if we pick and choose between universally agreed human rights, as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We still need income measures such as gross national income, but we also need to listen to what many countries are saying about other growing vulnerabilities they face, especially as a result of climate change.
However, even with all the conflicts on the United Nations agenda, even as we face the existential threat of climate change, the world faces another existential threat, one risk that is consequential for every Member State.


  
     1163     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_AUT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

including a full-scale war of aggression by Russia against Ukraine, an intensifying global climate crisis with extreme weather events causing devastation around the world, rising poverty, social divisions and a backsliding of human rights and development gains that were hard-earned over the past decades.
It also means that we have to be on our guard against those polarizing populists who spread fake news and offer seemingly easy answers to complex questions, who want us to believe that we can solve problems by simply negating them, by pulling up the drawbridge and decoupling from reality, be it on climate change, disruptive technologies like artificial intelligence, mutual political and economic dependencies or the growing multipolarity in geopolitics.
I agree — has served us all pretty well over the past eight decades: through a free and open global economy; through preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping, which have brought stability to our neighbourhoods, an effort which Austrian Blue Helmets have been supporting since 1960; through a web of international treaties and agreements addressing such diverse issues as disarmament and climate change; and through a system of human rights established 75 years ago in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and confirmed 30 years ago in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.


  
     1164     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_AZE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

From deteriorating climate trends to deep-rooted poverty, rising tensions and ravaging pandemics, the challenges plague us all.
Azerbaijan has voluntarily pledged to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by up to 40 per cent by 2050 and to establish a green-energy zone in its Garabagh and East Zangazur regions.


  
     1165     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BDI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Concerning the climate crisis.
I welcome the commitments already made by States, in particular through the various international consultations on the climate issue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to finance environmental protection, climate resilience and the green transition of less polluting countries.
We want to see those commitments followed up by concrete action, because the failure to mobilize $100 billion per year since 2020 through the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and annually until 2025.
We believe that the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will be held this year in Dubai, will be an excellent opportunity to transform promises into realities.


  
     1166     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BEL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our changing climate is reason for concern.
This year we have witnessed some extreme climate events — forest fires in Greece.
Let us look at our recent climate track record, and we will see that there is reason for grounded optimism.
Prices of renewables keep on going down year after year.
Many climate analysts believe that carbon emissions will peak as soon as 2025.
The Executive Director of the International Energy Agency called it the beginning of the end of the fossil fuel era.
He said that it shows that our climate policies work.
How can we expect public opinion to rally behind the climate cause with such blatant defeatism?
We will not build a climate paradise on an industrial wasteland.
We need our industry for its innovation capacity to come up with tomorrow’s climate solutions.
All are needed to build our net zero future.
We will remain a nuclear nation, and we will seek renewed close cooperation with other nuclear nations because, to achieve climate neutrality, we will need both renewables and nuclear.
It is vital to win the fight against climate change, since it is the single-biggest disruptor of our societies today.
as with climate change, partnerships are the answer — partnerships between Europe and the countries of transit and origin and partnerships that build solid, inclusive institutions to create equal rights and equal opportunities for all.
Take the Sahel region, faced with a major security crisis and gripped by a perfect storm of terrorism, poverty and climate change.


  
     1167     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BEN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the current global context, replete with various crises, in particular the worrisome effects of climate change, the war in Ukraine and its consequences and the political unrest in a number of countries, we are approaching the current session even as humankind continues to face a multitude of complex challenges.
inter alia, peace and security, including cybersecurity; democracy and human rights; access to water and energy in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner; health and education; the fight against poverty and inequalities, whether economic, social or otherwise; climate change, biodiversity and the environment; food safety; and migration.


  
     1168     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BGD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Despite contributing less than 0.47 per cent of global emissions.
Bangladesh is one of the most climatically vulnerable countries in the world.
The adverse effects of climate change pose serious threats to the security and economic prosperity of our present and future generations.
We established the Bangladesh Climate Change Trust in 2009 to finance climate adaptation and have to date allocated $480 million to the fund from our own resources.
We also demand the urgent operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund, as agreed at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
We call for stronger global solidarity in sharing the burden of climate migrants induced by sea-level rise, salinity increase, river erosion, floods and drought.


  
     1169     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BGR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution threatens life on our planet.
Russia’s suspension of its participation in the New START Treaty is a cause for great concern.
Climate change is a threat multiplier and mitigating it is essential.
Decisive climate action is a pressing global imperative and a test for the ability of the multilateral system to respond.


  
     1170     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BHR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Foremost among them are the escalation of wars and armed conflicts; the dangers of extremism, terrorism and organized crime; cybersecurity threats, food and water security, climate change and natural and health disasters.
Proceeding from our belief in the right of people to a healthy, clean and sustainable environment, the Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms its support for international initiatives in the field of climate change.
We are committed to achieving net-zero carbon neutrality by 2060; reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2035; doubling the number of trees and.
We would like to wish the United Arab Emirates every success in organizing and presiding over the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change at the end of the year.


  
     1171     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BHS_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our Prime Minister Philip Edward “Brave” Davis says that the number one foreign policy issue for the Bahamas is climate change.
He has expressed the existential fear we face along with other island peoples, in the Atlantic and the Pacific alike, as to whether we will become climate refugees or face a watery grave.
Given that our Prime Minister has expressed those sentiments in many forums around the world throughout his years in office, it was indeed shocking to hear the national position of one of our developed- nation partners on reparations for loss and damage from climate change.
That means a “no” to reparations on climate damage and a “no” to reparations on slavery — “no” over and over again.
Therefore, the Bahamas wants the world to know that, whether it be on reparations for slavery or on climate change, “no” is not the correct answer.
Stay and enjoy our beauty; understand our climate vulnerability.


  
     1172     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BLR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Then there are other, second-tier issues, such as combating climate change, transnational crime, pandemics and diseases, which can be solved.


  
     1173     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BLZ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, developed countries committed to mobilizing $100 billion per year by 2020 for climate action.
$381.6 billion in public climate finance has been forgone.
The commitment made in 2015 in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda to phase out fossil-fuel subsidies has been completely ignored.
According to the International Monetary Fund, fossil-fuel subsidies surged to a record $7 trillion last year.
The global average temperatures for the last three months were the highest on record.
Yet the Group of 20 countries, which are responsible for 80 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions, are failing in their duty to drastically curb their emissions.
Keeping the goal of 1.5°C alive is slipping from our grasp.
More than half of the world’s top 50 most climate-vulnerable countries are home to 40 per cent of people living in extreme poverty.
The objectives and policies of international financial institutions must be better aligned with our climate and development goals.
Unmet commitments, insufficient to meet growing needs, have contributed to the huge financing gap we face today, to the stalling of the climate and development agendas and to the deepening of current crises.
By course-correcting immediately, we can begin to restore trust and solidarity and get us on track to achieving the Paris goals and the SDGs.
In truth, regrettably, we are all on the road to climate perdition — all of us; no one is exempt.
The global stocktake to be concluded at the twenty-eighth session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP) is an unmissable opportunity to agree solutions to address the perilous gaps in implementation, accelerate climate action and ramp up ambition.
The decades-long call for climate justice must be answered.
Small island developing States like Belize are the most vulnerable to climate change.
Yet those whose economic prosperity and wealth have been based on climate-destroying activities are attempting to evade their historical responsibilities by lowering ambition on climate action, backsliding on the implementation of their obligations and refusing to deliver on climate finance.
That blatant injustice is compounded by the reality that to invest in resilience, to respond to and recover from climate-induced disasters, we must borrow from the very same wealthy countries.
They must close the emissions and implementation gaps to keep the 1.5°C goal within reach.
The loss and damage fund must be operationalized and capitalized at COP28.
We need adequate resources for just transitions to sustain our low-carbon economies and to further decouple our energy, transport and electrical systems from high-polluting activities.


  
     1174     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BOL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

For example, in the context of climate change, let us agree that each State shall dedicate resources to the Loss and Damage Fund in proportion to its historical responsibility for greenhouse gases.
Fourth, the climate crisis requires concrete actions and renewed commitments.
Regarding the needs for mitigation, adaptation to the climate crisis and growing losses and damages, it is important that all countries shoulder their responsibilities.
In that framework, the developed countries must assume their corresponding share of the climate debt and compensation and historical reparations to developing countries.


  
     1175     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BRA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

At that time, the world had not yet realized the severity of the climate crisis.
The coronavirus disease pandemic, the climate crisis and food and energy insecurity have been amplified by growing geopolitical tensions.
Taking action against climate change involves thinking about tomorrow and facing historical inequalities.
Rich countries grew, based on a model with high rates of climate-damaging emissions.
The climate emergency makes it urgent to correct course and implement what has already been agreed.
It is the vulnerable populations in the global South who are most affected by the loss and damage caused by climate change.
The richest 10 per cent of the world’s population is responsible for almost half of all carbon that is released into the atmosphere.
We are at the forefront of an energy transition, and our matrix is already one of the cleanest in the world.
We want to arrive at the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Dubai, with a joint vision that reflects, without any coaching, priorities for preserving the Amazon, the Congo and Borneo-Mekong basins, based on our needs.
Without mobilizing financial and technological resources, there is no way to implement what we decided in the Paris Agreement and the global biodiversity framework.
No one remembers the Doha Development Round anymore.


  
     1176     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BRB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Too late for us to save as many as we can from the climate crisis?
We ask that question recognizing that Al is not in the immediate focal point of many because the drama and the crises that surround climate are taking up all of the oxygen, literally, in the world.
The records of the multinational companies that are engaged in fossil fuels will show that they have known for a considerable period of time the consequences of their actions.
the President of the World Bank was questioning whether there was a climate crisis.
The issues of debt sustainability cannot be left on the sidelines, particularly with the number of countries — more than 60 — facing debt row today, as we speak, because of the polycrises and because countries are being forced to choose between development and the building of resilience to fight climate.
I want to express my thanks, because a year ago we did not have the Paris Agenda for People and the Planet.
If we do not change how we do our business; if we do not recognize that the Security Council needs to put itself in a position not to speak to climate change, but to protect us against the climate crisis — because it is as much of a crisis as the war in Ukraine or the wars in Africa or the instability and conflict elsewhere in the world — and if we do not take a proactive approach, then we truly shall be victims of it.
If we can do that, if we can continue to make the case for finance and if we can continue to stay focused on the climate crisis, then yes.


  
     1177     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BRN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

ASEAN recently signed an agreement to officially launch the ASEAN Centre for Climate Change in Brunei Darussalam.
It will facilitate and assist in collecting data towards addressing the challenges of climate action and will serve as a regional hub and research facility that seeks to enhance capacity in our efforts to mitigate and combat climate change.


  
     1178     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BTN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is further exacerbated by the conflicts and the looming climate emergency, which have thrown efforts towards achieving the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs off track.
Devastation and destruction from extreme weather events and natural disasters are taking place at levels never seen before, with studies pointing to climate change as the main responsible factor.
The report of one working group of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change confirms that the rate of ice-sheet loss has increased at an alarming rate over the past three decades, with the region experiencing glacier-mass loss of 65 per cent.
Even if global warming is limited to 1.5°C.
The melting of our glaciers also contributes substantially to rising sea-level and triggers a host of cascading effects, including coastal erosion, flooding and permanent land submersion.
We are fortunate that the past investments in environmental conservation are reaping climate dividends.
Our forests not only serve as a carbon sink for greenhouse-gas emissions, but also provide the valuable ecosystem service of delivering clean water for drinking, agriculture and hydropower generation.
We are committed to remaining carbon neutral and reaffirm our pledge to fulfil our commitments to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
While welcoming the breakthrough agreement to provide loss and damage funding for vulnerable countries on the frontline of the climate crisis during the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27).
we are hopeful that progress will be made and that it will be operationalized by COP28.
In addition, we need to mobilize new and additional climate financing, while ensuring balance between financing for mitigation and adaptation.
We also need to forge strong international cooperation in coming up with viable projects and partnerships to scale up investments in alternative renewable energy to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, particularly in the manufacturing and transport sectors.
SARS-CoV-3 may just be around the corner, brought about by climate change, massive loss of habitat and ever-increasing interaction between humans and animals.


  
     1179     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_BWA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we convene this week, the world is in the age of a polycrisis, facing a plethora of persisting global challenges, among them the war in Ukraine, its associated geopolitical tensions, the impact on the global economy, the challenges related to climate change and the lingering effects of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.
Climate change remains an urgent and critical challenge of our time, posing a huge threat to the existence of our planet.
It is alarming that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recently reported record-high global greenhouse-gas emissions, which are at the highest level and which continue to surge.
To effectively address climate change, it is crucial that we prioritize international cooperation and partnerships.
Such a global effort requires a comprehensive approach that goes beyond reducing emissions, encompassing various aspects of our lives, be it energy production, agriculture, transportation or industry.
That necessitates sufficient funding to support mitigation and adaptation, particularly for developing countries.
In that context, we endorse the appeal for developed countries to fulfil their pledge to provide $100 billion annually in climate financing to developing countries.
That also includes fully replenishing the Green Climate Fund.
My Government welcomes the Secretary-General’s Acceleration Agenda, which urges the fast-tracking of climate action in all countries and sectors.
we reaffirm our commitment to achieving a 15 per cent reduction in carbon emissions by 2030.


  
     1180     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CAF_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

As I have argued on other occasions, the tragic consequences of such natural disasters must drive home to the global scientific community the urgency of identifying regions of the world that are particularly vulnerable to extreme climatic events and of making available to the States concerned the information necessary to limit the damage.
As our countries continue to face climate shocks, geopolitical tensions and unprecedented financial, energy and food challenges, new global challenges arise every day.
every day the media announce natural disasters linked to climate change, which come as warning signs of the apocalypse.
in order to restore confidence and revive solidarity in the face of devastating climate phenomena, commitments have been made by developed countries, the major polluters, from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to the agreements struck in Glasgow and Sharm El-Sheikh.
The twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in particular, usefully set four major objectives that we have all adopted — mitigation, adaptation, financing and a just transition — in order to meet the common challenges facing humankind.


  
     1181     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CAN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are also approaching the first global stocktaking of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
As we all know full well—and as the citizens of New York know full well — Canadians are also experiencing climate and environmental crises.
We have also decided to put a price on carbon because we know that we must do everything we can to curb climate change, even as we know that we have to do more ourselves.
We believe strongly that reducing emissions is a duty that is shared, but so is the need to ensure something else — the access to capital on longer terms and with more favourable rates in order to help in the green transformation of the global economy.
Conflicts are one of the main drivers of this global crisis, as are climate change, natural disasters and economic insecurity.


  
     1182     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CHE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Together, we must combat these crises — the climate crisis, wars, social conflict and growing inequalities, as well as the weakening of democratic institutions and the erosion of the multilateral structures that enable us to connect at the international level.
Climate change exacerbates social and economic inequalities, too.


  
     1183     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CHL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The second topic that requires urgent action, and for which we also do not share equal responsibility, is the crisis of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
We know that many States here, in particular the most vulnerable — those that have contributed the least to global warming and have burned the least fossil fuels — are the ones that have suffered the most from the climate crisis.
We have adopted a biodiversity protection law and have committed to reaching carbon neutral status by 2050 at the latest.
Climate change means that we face increasingly frequent and more complex challenges.
Central America and the Caribbean that are suffering the most devastating effects of climate change.
We are not responsible for the damage caused by the climate crisis or its biases.
The phenomena of the climate crisis, migration and pandemics have neither borders nor flags.


  
     1184     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CHN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We should fully and effectively implement the Paris Agreement.
Developed countries should do more to reduce emissions and provide developing countries with financing, technology and capacity-building support.
China will continue to pursue ecological conservation on a priority basis, advance green and low-carbon development, stop building new coal-fired power projects abroad, vigorously support other developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energy and help them build more green energy projects.
China will continue to actively respond to climate change.


  
     1185     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CIV_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change remains a major issue and is having a major impact on our economies and ability to overcome the challenge of financing for development.
Developing countries, such as Cote d’Ivoire, which are only marginally responsible for climate change, are disproportionately affected and are suffering the most from its consequences.
As an agricultural producer, my country is committed to strengthening efforts to combat the effects of climate change in order to improve people’s resilience, which involves, first, ramping up the sustainable management of natural resources and biodiversity, and secondly, encouraging people to develop civic awareness regarding environmental preservation and the promotion of sustainable development.
Faced with the challenges of today, bilateral and multilateral partners must meet their financial commitments under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and also facilitate the entry into force of the loss and damage fund agreed at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27).
Cote d’Ivoire welcomes the success of the African Climate Summit, held in Nairobi on 5 and 6 September 2023.
I take this opportunity to call on the international community to support the recommendations made in the Nairobi declaration on climate change, in particular with regard to increasing the continent’s renewable energy production capacity.
The proliferation and consequences of extreme weather events caused by climate change in recent years have resulted in widespread material destruction and the tragic loss of human life.
Such devastation — the cost of our inaction on climate change — is erasing the progress made towards achieving the SDGs.
especially for the countries that are most vulnerable to the effects of global warming.
That demonstrates how much more solidarity and resources dedicated to financing the SDGs will be required to combat global warming and adapt our economies and societies.


  
     1186     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CMR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Those situations undermine the numerous efforts made to overcome the coronavirus disease pandemic, return to growth and development, and effectively fight climate change.
That is the case with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the major agreement on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that we launched together here in 2015.
debt, climate financing and development in general.
It was one of the first countries to ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and.
in conjunction with the other members of the Congo forest basin, is actively working to find solutions to climate change.


  
     1187     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_COD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The war in Ukraine has caused a food crisis marked by skyrocketing prices and shortages of basic goods; the exacerbation of the effects of climate change; and armed conflicts that continue to erupt in various places.
given the combined effect of climate disasters, recurrent conflicts, the economic recession and the persistent after-effects of the coronavirus disease pandemic, inequality and poverty have worsened.
Hunger and malnutrition are on the rise; humanitarian needs and the displacement of populations have reached record levels; and climate and environmental disasters have brought the world face to face with a very serious systemic existential threat.
Another challenge exists that is of the utmost concern to all the nations of the world: global warming.
I need hardly recall that the rising temperature over several decades has affected all humankind and is of concern to us all.
I am compelled to note here that despite the polluters’ good-faith proclamations in favour of stopping greenhouse-gas emissions; the many forums convened all over the world to stem that scourge, including the 27 Conferences of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COPs); and the many resolutions and recommendations adopted at the various meetings, the warming of our planet is far from being limited to the target of 1.5°C.
On the contrary, at COP 27.
Egypt, this year, concerns were expressed about the trend of rising temperatures.
In that context, the African Climate Summit, which was just held in Nairobi from 4 to 7 September under the joint leadership of the African Union and the Republic of Kenya, was a welcome and timely initiative that reflects Africa’s determination to participate actively in addressing that vital question and to be a key and influential player in the process of devising solutions to global warming and to ensuring greener and more responsible economies in future.
The Africans emerged from the Summit with a set of shared specifications contained in the Nairobi Declaration, which are aimed at ensuring a reform of the international financial architecture so as to ensure greater fairness; restructuring and debt alleviation for their countries; the local processing of their products; and the establishment of a carbon tax regime, including a tax on the trade in fossil fuels and on maritime and air transport.
They also reminded rich polluters of the commitment they undertook in 2009 but have yet to honour of providing $100 billion in climate financing.
In that context, my country calls for the creation of a fair carbon market and incentive 
pricing while strengthening the effectiveness of climate financing.
We hope to see the rapid operationalization of article 6 of the Paris Agreement and support the idea of mutually beneficial partnerships between the State and the private sector.
The United Nations embodies those principles and remains a key protagonist in addressing contemporary existential threats, be they the current food crisis, climate change, terrorism, pandemics or nuclear proliferation.


  
     1188     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_COG_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate is today the most pressing of all emergencies.
The continual rise in sea levels that is endangering island countries, the sweeping desertification that nothing seems to stop, the suffocating heatwaves that kill many elderly people again and again, the repetitive floods and sudden mudslides that cause such visible damage — all those phenomena are as dangerous as they are devastating, and they now concern even the most sceptical among us.
assuming my share of responsibility in my capacity as President of the Congo Basin Climate Commission.
I launched, at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Egypt, the Global Decade of Afforestation initiative for biodiversity and denser plant cover at the service of humankind.
Amazon and Borneo-Mekong-South-East Asia — as a collective and concerted response from those three green lungs of the planet to the climate insecurity that is now so threatening.
In Africa, in terms of agricultural development, we know that we must protect arable land from the harmful impacts of climate change.


  
     1189     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_COL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

And the climate crisis is showing its teeth, claiming thousands of lives and heating land and sea as never before.
I propose that we end the war in order to defend life from the climate crisis, the mother of all crises.
Those rich countries have failed to deliver on their own promise to finance climate change adaptation.
At this point we do not need $100 billion — we need $3 trillion to overcome the climate crisis, and the bill is rising with every second that passes on Earth.
And we have talked in every tone of voice about getting to the root of the problem of and resolving the climate crisis.
If fossil capitalism is not financed, it will die.
Decarbonized capitalism will have to be financed — we already know that green capital will move only where there is profit.
and that framework for covering the decarbonization of the entire world is a narrow one.
Those in Government and power who still believe that the climate crisis, the crisis of life itself, can be overcome with a few affordable credits are mistaken.
Most of the investment in decarbonizing the world’s economy will come from public funds, from societal efforts, by bringing States together to bring humankind together — what is now known as multilateralism — to govern the Earth through the lens of democracy rather than the lens of empire.
It entails planning the transition to a decarbonized economy and financing it.
The decarbonized economy.
we would be able to finance a Marshall Plan for the Sustainable Development Goals and for social and environmental justice on the planet, a plan to overcome, mitigate and adapt to the climate crisis, which is the crisis of life.


  
     1190     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_COM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The effects of climate change and the numerous conflicts on the continent compound the situation, as does the Russian-Ukrainian war.
We must also step up the fight against the effects of climate change.
We are all experiencing it — our planet is constantly facing various climatic hazards, in particular cyclones, floods, rising sea levels and drought, to name but a few.
The reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions and the funding promised to combat climate change must be translated into concrete actions if we indeed wish to live in a safer and more prosperous world.
I therefore call for support for the Moroni Declaration for Ocean and Climate Action in Africa, signed in June, and the African leaders’ Nairobi Declaration on Green Growth and Climate Finance Solutions, of last September, so that our countries can defend, with one voice, their common interests in favour of sustainable development, particularly at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Dubai.
That will enable the agency to better support our African cities, which are brimming with potential but have become very vulnerable to climate change.


  
     1191     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CPV_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We should consider security from a broad-based, global perspective that takes into account health, climate and environmental security in the context of pandemics and climate change; food security and overall security in addressing profound inequalities in access to basic goods such as water, electricity and household sanitation; and security in the face of drug trafficking, terrorism, maritime piracy, human trafficking and cybercrime.
It should encourage us to reform the international financial architecture, operationalize climate and environmental financing instruments, substantially increase special drawing rights, simplify the rules for their issuance and allocation and provide debt relief to the least developed countries.
It requires transformations in terms of reducing vulnerabilities, increasing resilience and responding to external economic, financial, energy, climate and health shocks.
The conversion of debt into climate and environmental financing is one such mechanism.
Such transformations can free up resources for investments that improve resilience, reduce exposure to external shocks, lower carbon emissions, protect biodiversity, create investment opportunities for the private sector and skilled job opportunities for young people.
Cabo Verde and Portugal recently signed an agreement to convert bilateral debt into climate and environmental financing to help to achieve those goals.


  
     1192     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CRI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

In such an interconnected world, it is imperative to recognize that there are no longer geographical boundaries when it comes to both the consequences of conflict and climate catastrophe.
That requires action, ambition and resolve to reach our 30x30 conservation goal of no more than 1.5°C of global warming.
The ocean is being affected by global warming, sea level rise, an alarming increase in marine pollution, the overexploitation of fish stocks, decreasing biodiversity and the loss of coral.


  
     1193     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CUB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

No one in their right mind is denying now that climate change is threatening the survival of all.
It is also no secret that those who are least responsible for climate change are the ones suffering the most from its effects, particularly small island developing States.
Meanwhile, industrialized countries, voracious predators of resources and the environment, elude their greatest responsibility and fail to comply with their commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement.
for climate financing, has never once been met.
On the eve of the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28).
the G77 countries will need to prioritize the exercise of a global balance, the implementation of the Loss and Damage Fund, the definition of the framework for the adaptation goal and the establishment of a new climate financing goal, fully abiding by the principle of shared but differentiated responsibilities.
That initiative, unprecedented in the context of a Conference of the Parties, will provide a forum in which to articulate the positions of our Group at the highest level in the context of the climate negotiations.
COP28 will demonstrate whether, beyond the speeches, there is a real political will on the part of developed nations to achieve the urgent agreements required on this issue.


  
     1194     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CYP_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate emergency and climate change know no borders.
Cyprus is actively participating in a new international climate change initiative to address the specific needs and challenges that countries in our neighbourhood are facing to advance mitigation actions.
The Climate Ambition Summit, which is being held today, is a critical milestone in confirming our collective political will to achieve the transition to a climate-resilient global economy.


  
     1195     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_CZE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The region remains vulnerable to numerous political, economic and climate risks.
Climate change remains the single most destructive threat to the current and future existence and wellbeing of all humankind.


  
     1196     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_DEU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The greatest challenge of all is anthropogenic climate change.
Of course, the traditional industrialized countries have a very special responsibility in the fight against the climate crisis.
However, many other countries are among the biggest emitters today.
Instead of waiting for others, we all have to do more together to achieve the Paris climate goals.
That leads us to one conclusion — we have to decouple economic development from carbon dioxide emissions.
I am pleased to announce today that Germany is honouring its pledges on international climate financing.
We have therefore kept our word, as will the industrialized countries as a whole, which will hit their target of €100 billion for international climate financing for the first time this year.
That is an important and overdue signal before we take stock in Dubai this December and negotiate new climate action plans for the period after 2030.
Climate action or development — that trade-off will not work.
our energy supplies and our infrastructure to a resource-efficient, climate-neutral future.
I have been calling — most recently at the G-20 Summit in Delhi — for the multilateral development banks to reform so that they can contribute more to financing the protection of global public goods such as the climate and biodiversity or the prevention of pandemics.


  
     1197     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_DJI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are meeting at a time when the consequences of multiple security, economic and climate crises continue to strike our countries.
Our country is located in a region that is vulnerable to climate change, which is why we have made significant efforts in the area of climate action, in keeping with SDG 13 on action to combat climate change.
Climate change remains an existential threat to our countries.
hence the urgency of honouring the commitments undertaken in the Paris Agreement.
If nothing is done, the negative impact of climate change will continue to lead to significant disturbances, including many more extreme weather events, the scarcity of resources, sea level rise, an increase in the number of displaced people and the exacerbation of hunger and poverty.
We welcome the crucial decision taken at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Sharm El-Sheikh, to create a loss and damage fund.


  
     1198     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_DMA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate crisis seemingly will not go away, as evidenced, for example, by the recent wildfires in Hawaii and Canada, thereby illuminating the discussion on the need to give even more urgent attention to mitigation and climate financing.
Typically, the narrow fiscal space and the increase in economic and environmental losses attributable to changes in weather patterns and other climate-related events have served to increase our vulnerabilities exponentially.
In that regard, we welcome the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development and the call of the Secretary-General to convene the Climate Ambition Summit.
Accordingly, we wish to emphasize the need for the implementation of the loss and damage fund agreed upon at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     1199     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_DNK_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need to fast-track the green transition and accelerate climate adaptation, and we need to revitalize multilateralism and bring the United Nations and other institutions of global governance firmly into the twenty-first century.
while climate shocks are hitting those most vulnerable at an accelerating speed.
innovative ways to finance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to realize the goals of the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change by mobilizing domestic as well as international resources, including private capital.
Denmark is increasing its grant-based climate financing to the highest-ever level — $745 million, of which approximately 60 per cent will be allocated for adaptation.
Next year, we will double our contribution to the Green Climate Fund to approximately $234 million.
We are also increasing our support to the Danish Development Finance Institution, enabling it to triple its annual contribution to climate financing in developing countries, from $300 million today to approximately $900 million towards 2030.
To mobilize financing for development and climate action, we also need to better leverage the enormous potential of the international financial institutions.
The development banks, including the World Bank, must raise not billions, but trillions of dollars for climate action and the SDGs.
We will be pushing for the highest ambitions at the upcoming annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Marrakesh, as well as at the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28).
The climate emergency is worsening.
The year 2023 is on track to become the warmest year ever recorded.
Denmark is urging the world’s biggest emitters to reduce their carbon emissions, phase out fossil fuels and commit to renewable energy.
At the same time, we need to significantly scale up our efforts to adapt to climate change and address climate-induced loss and damages.
Despite having contributed the least to climate change, it is the poorest and most vulnerable parts of the world that suffer the most devastating consequences.
We need to make COP28 the turning point in overcoming that global injustice.
As stated in the African leaders’ Nairobi Declaration on Climate Change and Call to Action, no country should ever have to choose between development aspirations and climate action.
The fact is that it no longer makes sense to talk about sustainable development without factoring in climate change.
We are wasting valuable time and limited resources if we do not integrate our efforts for sustainable development and climate action.


  
     1200     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_DOM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The various crises caused by climate change have had devastating impacts on our planet and our societies, such as droughts, rising sea levels, the loss of biodiversity and extreme weather events, among other impacts.
As a developing economy with a negative carbon footprint, we are making our contribution to climate change mitigation by encouraging the use of renewable energy.
But we know that is only one step on the long road to sustainability, because we are still very dependent on fossil fuels.
Important steps have been taken to address the climate emergency, such as the recent adoption of the Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction, which I will sign this afternoon.
Nevertheless, there are still many more important steps that must be taken, including the adoption of a multidimensional vulnerability index to be applied to all developing countries and the establishment of a loss and damage fund to provide financial assistance to the countries that are most vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
Another of the harmful effects of climate change affects our Caribbean region in particular is the massive bloom of sargassum.


  
     1201     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_DZA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Millions of people have been displaced and international relations transformed from ties of cooperation and consensus to confrontation and conflict that threaten international organizations in the midst of a world that is enduring climate and other emergencies under extreme pressure.
That vulnerable and unstable situation is casting a shadow over the entire Sahel and Sahara region, which suffers from low development rates, famine and climate change, leading to further instability and strengthening terrorist groups that use the region as a haven for their criminal activity.


  
     1202     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ECU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

I will share our vision and efforts to address the global challenges we face, from climate change and chronic child malnutrition to the most urgent threats to our security.
At the same time, we have made great strides in the transition from unsustainable production systems to a circular and low- emission economy.
We call on the international community to consider risk-mitigation measures through large financial funds and non-reimbursable international cooperation, given that it is climate change that will determine the severity of the phenomenon.


  
     1203     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_EGY_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Fourthly, the world is facing the existential threat of climate change.
Climate disasters such as devastating floods, deadly hurricanes or continuous drought have become part of our daily life.
International reports stress that the world is not on track to address the climate challenge, especially with respect to adequate financing for developing countries to support the implementation of their national pledges.
In that regard, given Egypt’s conviction of the importance of moving from planning to implementation, we succeeded, at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) in Sharm el-Sheikh.
in mobilizing international consensus to achieve climate justice.
We reached balanced decisions there, based on the agreed responsibilities and principles as per the Convention and the Paris Agreement.
Moreover, as an international community, we achieved historic progress by securing funds for developing countries to confront climate-change-related losses and damage and established a track towards a just transformation in development.
As President of COP27.
Some countries have imposed protective measures and fees under the pretext of climate change.
I would like to stress that our success relies upon implementing the pledges and existing agreements, especially by establishing a fund that provides financing for developing countries to face losses and damage and the financing necessary to achieve the goal of the 1.5°C limit.


  
     1204     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ESP_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The first dilemma that I would like to mention in this address relates to the climate emergency.
We have just experienced the hottest months ever recorded.
It is no longer a case of trying to slow the rise in temperatures; it is a matter of mitigation and.
Thanks to science, we know that we must limit the rise in temperature to 1.5°C; that global emissions cannot peak any later than the year 2025; and that we have no other choice than to expedite the roll-out of renewable energies, and to do so in a fair and equitable manner, in order to triple their generation capacity by the end of this decade.
Tackling the climate emergency requires courage and determination.
That support demands intelligence to overcome climate inaction’s main ally, which is none other than denialism.
We have set more ambitious renewable energy and energy efficiency targets in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan.
We will contribute €225 million to the Green Climate Fund.
€20 million to the Adaptation Fund and more than €17 million to instruments that strengthen climate justice, particularly funds for the most vulnerable countries and the loss and damage fund.
It is crucial that the upcoming twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in the United Arab Emirates, be a resounding success.
It will not be easy to mobilize the financing required to tackle the climate emergency and make the long-term investments that vulnerable countries need in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Europe must lead by example on the climate agenda by delivering on our pledge to reduce emissions, fulfilling international climate financing pledges and expediting the energy transition.


  
     1205     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_EST_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our challenges are largely shared — ensuring sustainable peace and security, ending poverty, addressing climate change and finding the best sustainable use for new technologies.


  
     1206     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ETH_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change continues to have devastating impacts across the globe.
The upcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in the United Arab Emirates, should therefore be seized as an opportune moment to take bold actions.
We are also committed to finding comprehensive solutions to the climate crisis.


  
     1207     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_EU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

the climate crisis is wreaking havoc.
The planet is boiling.
For example, we have made a collective pledge to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
But if we stick to the commitments announced so far — and we are nowhere near doing so — global warming will reach 2.5°C by the end of the century.
It is also in everyone’s interest to help developing countries to commit to net zero emissions by 2050.
It is clear that only one quarter of global private investment is 
being made in developing countries, yet the 620 countries are responsible for 80 per cent of global emissions.
It is only this year that the international community is expected to reach the pledge it made several years ago of $100 billion to finance climate action.
The International Energy Agency estimates that global investment in the energy transition should reach $5 trillion per annum in 2030 — more than 4 per cent of global gross domestic product — to achieve zero carbon by 2050.
at the upcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Dubai, we must establish the financing for the Loss and Damage Fund decided on last year in Sharm El-Sheikh.
Finally, trade is a powerful lever to bring together climate challenges and prosperity.


  
     1208     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_FIN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The many global challenges that we are facing — from climate change to pandemics, poverty and wars — cannot be solved by one country or group of like-minded countries alone.
Climate action is a clear example.
Any progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals will be undermined if we do not manage to cap global warming at 1.5°C.
Climate change and biodiversity loss are challenges that the global community cannot escape.
The past summer was yet again the hottest on record.
It is also important to realize that climate change does not treat us equally or fairly.
strong commitments to reduce emissions are urgently needed.


  
     1209     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_FJI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

For the Pacific, climate change has been identified as a threat to peace, security and our very existence.
The reality is that no country is exempt from the impact of climate change and no national can address it alone.
We in the Pacific directly bear the brunt of climate change on our coastlines, our communities, our livelihoods, our security and.
It is also an important carbon sink.
The Climate Ambition Summit, held earlier this week, called for enhanced commitment to climate action.
We must commit not only to reducing emissions, but also to supporting vulnerable communities and fostering climate resilience.
We look forward to the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and in particular to the finalization of the Loss and Damage Fund modalities.
We remain hopeful that the pledges towards the $100 billion climate finance goal will be met this year.
Climate finance is inaccessible, in particular for small island developing States.
Fiji welcomes the announcement by President Biden earlier this week of his commitment to contributing $11 billion a year to international climate finance to help lower-income countries implement their climate goals.
We are also undertaking climate mobility adaptation strategies.
For small island developing States, the triple burden of non-communicable diseases, mental health and the climate emergency are straining our health infrastructure and resources.


  
     1210     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_FRA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agenda for Peoples and the Planet, which emerged from the June Summit, sets out clear principles to address both the challenges of poverty and of climate change and biodiversity loss so as to ensure that no country need choose between those goals.
I call on all States that have not yet done so to endorse the Paris Agenda.
Our cooperation effort is also that of a country that has surpassed its climate financing promises by more than €1 billion, bringing it now to €7.6 billion as of 2022.
France will therefore host the United Nations Ocean Conference, which it is co-organizing with Costa Rica, in order to strengthen as far as possible the protection of an essential carbon sink — the oceans.
In terms of the climate, today we can see how a lack of ambition can result in disasters.
The latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the summary produced ahead of the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change should alarm us.
It is that of the Montreal Protocol, which enabled humankind to resolve the ozone layer problem.
It is the method that we used to together reach the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015.
Given the climate destruction, the demolition of our natural environment and the widespread loss of our biodiversity.


  
     1211     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_FSM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have just emerged from the coronavirus disease pandemic, yet our collective challenges have not diminished; rather, we have faced a number of intersecting crises, from the adverse impacts of climate change to the decline in the health of our ocean, from sustainable development to peace and security.
the international community also adopted the landmark Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Though far from perfect, the Paris Agreement represents a key tool to combat the climate crisis.
The adoption of the Paris Agreement marked a high point of multilateralism, similar to this organ’s adoption of the 2030 Agenda.
Unfortunately, the international community has not done nearly enough to get us on track to limiting the global average temperature increase to 1.5°C.
One need only scan the news on any random day to see the evidence of the climate crisis in devastating effects around the world today.
Loss and damage caused by the climate crisis are accumulating every day in Micronesia.
We need a fast-acting mandatory approach, which should be modelled on the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, the best environmental agreement ratified by every United Nations Member State.
We should use that work-horse treaty — the little engine that could — as a model for a new agreement to cut methane, the blowtorch pushing the planet from global warming to global boiling.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) tells us that current nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement, if fully implemented, will still lead to over 2°C of warming by the end of this century, with 3°C being a very distinct possibility.
major emitters, including from the developing world, have yet to commit to updating their nationally determined contributions as part of the global stocktake in order to get us on a 1.5°C track.
I joined my fellow leaders in the High Ambition Coalition on climate change in issuing a statement with a strong call for action.
Micronesia strongly implores all parties to the Paris Agreement — particularly major emitters from the developed and developing world — to commit, by the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28).
to major reductions of emissions of at least half by 2030.
with the peaking of emissions by 2025.
in line with the recommendations of the IPCC.
As part of that effort, countries should eliminate the emissions of methane, hydrofluorocarbons and other short-lived climate pollutants from their industrial products and activities, which altogether could result in the avoidance of at least 0.5°C of global warming.
While Micronesia has negligible global emissions, it has bold ambitions to limit its emissions.
Through our nationally determine contribution strategy, by 2030 we aim to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation by more than 65 per cent below 2000 levels.
That bold pledge will result in a healthier, happier and climate resilient island nation.
The climate crisis is indeed impacting health security, food security, water security, economic security and peace security.
We reiterate our call for the appointment of a special representative for climate and security to address those threats.
We also call for the full operationalization of the new Loss and Damage Fund at COP28 in order to equip those who are most affected by climate change to deal with the ongoing loss and damage impacts that are faced every day.
It is time for those most responsible for climate change to put their money where their mouth is.
As custodians of our natural heritage, we adopted the amendment in part to underscore that this right is a general principle of international law applicable to all States, including major contributors to the climate crisis.
We need all available tools to fight the climate crisis, including those provided to us under international law.
Micronesia is proud to have been a member of the core group of countries that advocated for the adoption by this organ of a resolution requesting an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the obligations of States and consequences under international law in relation to climate change.
Countries like mine and people like mine are the front lines of climate change, but we do not need more promises.
The Security Council has become archaic and ineffective in addressing security challenges of our contemporary world, which are much more complicated, interlocking and interconnected, including the worsening and devastating impacts of climate change.


  
     1212     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GAB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Multiple crises of solidarity, security crises, humanitarian crises, health crises, climate crises and geopolitical crises are fuelling feelings of distrust towards international institutions and mechanisms.
particularly on the crucial issue of financing climate action.
Gabon has made several decades of investments in the preservation of biodiversity and demonstrated tireless commitment to the fight against climate change.
New debt-for-nature financial pacts offer opportunities to increase budgets dedicated to protecting biodiversity, responding to the unsustainability of the debt of developing countries and combating climate change.
I therefore invite international financial partners to increase debt conversion initiatives to face the challenges of global warming, loss of biodiversity and sustainable development.
The various summits organized on the sidelines of this session, in particular on financing for development, climate ambition and universal coverage, are an opportunity for the international community to concretize its desire for joint action with a view to accelerating the achievement of the SDGs.
We must reinvent solutions to contemporary threats, including climate change and cyberspace insecurity.


  
     1213     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GBR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

This week, nations have gathered here to recommit to addressing the biggest challenges we face: climate change, with catastrophic weather events telling us to act now; the Sustainable Development Goals and how to get them back on track after the coronavirus disease; migration, with millions crossing borders and dangerous seas, at the mercy of human traffickers; and Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine.
The AI models being developed today could deliver the energy efficiency needed to beat climate change, stimulate the crop yields required to feed the world, detect signs of chronic diseases or pandemics and better manage supply chains so everyone has access to the materials and goods they need and enhance productivity in both businesses and Governments.


  
     1214     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GEO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

While recognizing the increasing demand for energy as well as the need to address climate change, we are actively pursuing new ventures in the field of renewable energy, including hydropower, wind, solar and other sustainable sources.


  
     1215     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GHA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Even within well-established and rich countries, the tensions over trade, climate, political boundaries and geopolitical spheres of influence are palpable.


  
     1216     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GMB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

From underdevelopment to climate change, from unsustainable debts to cost-of-living crises, from conflicts to marginalization — we need to cooperate better and share the burden of solutions equitably through greater partnerships and solidarity.
One of the important global issues negatively affecting Africa in disproportionate ways is climate change.
Africa is paying a very heavy price for global warming, even though it contributes the least to climate change.
The cataclysmic weather events currently affecting our world clearly make it imperative and urgent to undertake collective action to tackle climate change for a more liveable world.
The world lacks neither the climate action commitments nor the financial resources to match our ambitions, but we are short of the genuine political will to act decisively.
Will we ever agree on the modalities for the loss-and-damage fund at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change?
considering the prevailing mistrust that continues to characterize the global dialogue on climate change and climate action.
We have to act without delay and rebuild trust in our collective fight against global warming.
In the Gambia, through our nationally determined contribution under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we are acting through various initiatives and projects to combat climate change.
In addition, we sympathize with all countries that have recently endured the devastating consequences of deadly floods, wildfires and other natural disasters exacerbated by the effects of climate change.
Those events serve as a stark reminder of the urgent need for collective action to address the challenges posed by our changing climate.
The Gambia reaffirms its commitment to working together with the international community to mitigate and adapt to climate change.


  
     1217     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GNB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

we must comply with the Paris Agreement and the agreement reached at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change agreements, including the loss and damage fund for vulnerable countries, particularly island nations such as my country.


  
     1218     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GNQ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

the increase in armed groups, the real threat of terrorism and mercenary ism. climate change, the prospect of new health crises, the economic and financial crisis, as well as the food crisis, which is likely to result in famine in various countries.
Our determination to address pressing issues — from climate change to peace, security and development — is strong.


  
     1219     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GRC_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Nowhere is that clearer to me than in two core areas — tackling climate change and managing migration, both of which will be at the heart of Greece’s Security Council candidacy for the 2025-2026 term.
Greece will make climate and migration central tenets of its time on the Council, in addition to focusing on international law and maritime security.
That is because, at least in part, the global community’s current collective approach to climate and migration speaks to a failure to match its rhetoric to its delivery on policy.
I warned that without multilateral cooperation, the devastating effects of climate change would soon be the norm rather than the exception (see A/77/PV.10).
I accept that the climate crisis is not an alibi for everything, but the science is clear.
Unprecedented temperatures, fuelled by global warming, are creating the conditions that drive those catastrophic events.
That is the new reality of climate change.
Greece and many of our friends and neighbours around the Mediterranean now face challenges similar to those of the countries that have preceded us at the sharp end of the climate crisis.
In Greece, we have pumped hundreds of millions into mitigation.
We introduced our first ever climate law.
and we are driving ambitious proposals with a view to decarbonizing our islands.
It could enable us to invest more, for example, in sharing new technology for advanced forecasting and modelling, so that we can predict with greater clarity and accuracy how climate phenomena are going to behave.
We will therefore push for the inclusion of an adaptation alliance at the upcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the United Arab Emirates.
With regard to managing the root causes of migration, we must challenge the negative political, socioeconomic and climate trends at source, in the countries of origin, but also the countries of transit.
Our two greatest shared challenges, however, climate change and migration, are of the present and of the future.
In conclusion, whether the issue is addressing climate change, managing migration or fighting the threat to our democratic way of life, all the challenges we face are daunting.


  
     1220     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GRD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

gender-based violence, climate-related disasters and other such issues that affect our planet, especially those that touch on and concern such aspirations as the achievement of all 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)?
Grenada has sought to mitigate those harsh realities and push back against those shocks, with several projects being implemented, including our Land Bank Project, the Grenada Climate Resilient Water Sector project and the UNDP climate resilience in agriculture programme.
concerning climate action.
it is the likelihood of a climate disaster of some kind occurring in one or several of our Member States, with devastating impacts on their citizens and economies and inevitable effects on the state and progress of those countries’ development.
Last year I called for accelerating the urgent task that our community of nations needs to focus on by redoubling our efforts on climate action (see A/77/PV.12).
In that regard, this year’s Climate Ambition Summit was an opportunity for Government leaders and other partners to present credible and concrete action aimed at keeping the 1.5°C goal of the Paris Agreement alive and deliver justice to those on the front lines of the climate crisis.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has confirmed that global emissions are at their highest levels in human history and are only continuing to rise.
The States that contribute the least to the climate crisis are the ones bearing the heaviest burden, and without immediate and deep emissions cuts across the board.
As we look forward to the upcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, my own region and fellow Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Heads of Government have emphasized the critical importance of making urgent efforts to address financing aimed at tackling the impact of climate change.
Those Heads of Government have also agreed on the need for strong political advocacy from the region on key areas for action to keep the 1.5°C temperature goal within reach, focusing on finance for adaptation, loss and damage, improving access to financing for small island developing States, de-risking, debt sustainability and innovation.
Grenada shares the concerns about those important issues and continues to remain vulnerable to our harsh climate crisis and its devastating effects.
Grenada has implemented several policy frameworks, such as its national climate change policy and national adaptation plan, geared to assisting in advancing our strategic approach to climate adaptation and building resilience.
Our adaptation efforts will be scaled up through initiatives such as our climate-smart agriculture programme and our second nationally determined contribution, which has set an emission-reduction target of 40 per cent below 2010 levels.
[We cannot continue to pay lip service to climate change when climate change is showing us every day what it is capable of doing.


  
     1221     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GTM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

I have heard great speeches, and major treaties and commitments have been signed to stop climate change.
The region that suffers the most from the impacts of climate change is the Caribbean and Central American region.
Although we generate only a small percentage of greenhouse gases, we suffer the most damage year after year.
due to industrialization and lack of commitment to combating the impacts of climate change and greenhouse gases, cause the death of human beings around the world?
There are countries that neither accept the United Nations agreements on climate change nor pay their budgetary contributions.


  
     1222     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_GUY_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Only through that can we hope to confront the most pressing challenges of our era — climate change, conflicts, the energy and food crises and the achievement of sustainable development.
I continue to believe that multilateralism remains the most effective approach to addressing those challenges, foremost of them climate change.
It is well established that those bearing the brunt of climate change have made no contribution to the current crisis.
Small island developing and low-lying coastal States such as Guyana are among the hardest hit and require adequate financing to address the attendant effects.
Although Guyana’s emission levels are already at net zero, we continue to pursue growth premised on a low-carbon development strategy.
As the country with the second-highest forest cover per capita in the world, we know the importance of forests in mitigating the effects of climate change at the global level.
Our advocacy in that regard has resulted in Guyana being issued 33.4 million tons of carbon credits — the first jurisdictional-scale programme in the world.
We are using revenue from oil and gas resources to finance our transition to renewable energy, despite our already globally recognized net-zero status.
Bloomberg estimates that achieving global net-zero emissions by 2050 requires annual investments of more than triple the 2021 level, to $6.7 trillion per year.
To limit the global temperature rise to less than 2°C.
More than 90 countries have committed to net-zero emissions.
If we are to achieve that, the IEA estimates that by 2050 more than 85 per cent of buildings must be net-zero-carbon-ready, more than 90 per cent of heavy industrial production must be low-emissions and almost 70 per cent of electricity will have to come from solar photovoltaic sources.
Meanwhile, in order to remove carbon from the atmosphere, the world will need to simultaneously halt deforestation and double the rate of the increase in 
tree-cover gain by 2030.
7.6 gigatons of carbon dioxide will have to be captured and stored, compared to 0.4 gigatons in 2020.
our ability to lead on climate change and to use our expansive oil and gas reserves can contribute to the advancement and development of our country and region.
But let me hasten to add that the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) will not achieve the desired objectives of definitively putting our planet on a net-zero trajectory if we continue to address this matter in a doctrinarian way.
If the debate at COP28 is framed by two camps — one calling for no cuts in fossil-fuel production, including its most polluting forms, such as coal, and the other saying that the only solution to net zero is an end to fossil fuel production — we will fail once again to achieve a viable outcome and give our world the energy it needs to grow and prosper.
I believe that net zero by 2050.
as a target, can be achieved only by a combination of measures that include cuts in fossil-fuel production, incentivizing the introduction of renewables at scale, exploring advances in technology in using carbon capture and storage, curtailing deforestation and land degradation and introducing measures to curb demand for energy.
That is why we support the expansion of financial mechanisms that appropriately value the environmental services provided by forests, including through the carbon market.
Conflict, climate change and the effects of the pandemic contribute to that dire state of affairs.
15 per cent of all proceeds from the sale of carbon credits go directly to Indigenous villages to finance their development.


  
     1223     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_HND_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world of Bretton Woods has hit rock bottom, and we must now recognize that at the current pace we will not achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and secure sufficient financing for climate adaptation.


  
     1224     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_HRV_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Most notably, we need to scale up development and climate financing.
While accepting the clean energy transition.
Croatia is taking a number of measures to alleviate the transition shock due to the rejection of fossil fuels and to ensure a fair transition and prevent energy poverty.
Croatia has already committed itself politically and legally to contributing to making Europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050.
I would mention as an example one such project that can boost new growth in the European economy based on decarbonization and clean industry.
When we put the clean energy transition at the heart of the fight against climate change on the global level, we should not forget that the most vulnerable communities, which have historically contributed the least to climate change, are often the ones most and worst affected — both by climate conditions and by the costs of the green energy transition as a remedy.
The establishment at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) of a loss and damage fund to help vulnerable countries cope with the destructive effects of climate change marked a historic breakthrough in that respect.
How we go about addressing the issue at the Climate Ambition Summit and COP28 will be a true test of trust and solidarity among nations and will have an impact on current and future generations.


  
     1225     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_HTI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Against this alarming backdrop, we should also mention the issue of climate change, which poses a constant threat to small island States, like Haiti, putting them to the test.
Thousands are seeking elsewhere for a better life and the calm that their birth country can no longer offer them in a world where there are no more “golden lands” due to climate change and recurring economic crises.


  
     1226     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_HUN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Elon Musk may be right when he says that demographic decline is a more serious problem than the climate crisis.


  
     1227     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_IDN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The same ideals are applicable in our fight against climate 
change and sea level rise, as well as safeguarding biodiversity.
We also need developed countries to fulfil their responsibility, including on climate financing, green investment and the transfer of technology.


  
     1228     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_IND_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Some address long-standing issues like the gender divide and climate action.
But even in distant regions, partners such as the Pacific islands have appreciated our contributions to meeting their needs in health, technology and climate action.
Climate action, too.


  
     1229     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_IRL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The devastating effect of climate change is contributing to increasing numbers of humanitarian crises, with record numbers of people in need of humanitarian assistance.
I am proud to confirm Ireland’s commitment to providing at least €225 million annually in climate finance for developing countries by 2025.
This year alone, we will spend €149 million on climate finance.
We know that those who have done the least to cause the climate crisis are those most vulnerable to its effects.
We need to be ready to take a definitive step at the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Dubai later this year.


  
     1230     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_IRN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Islamic Republic of Iran also stands ready to work to mitigate the effects of climate change, to bring its national capacity to bear on renewable energy production, and to share those with other countries.
In leaving the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).


  
     1231     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_IRQ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

and our country in particular — Mesopotamia, the land between the two great rivers — is suffering from drought caused by climate change.
The environmental catastrophe would have a harsher impact on Iraq and the countries of the region due to the unprecedented rise in temperatures, which will turn every aspect of daily life into an almost impossible task.
Iraq is therefore working on and calling for great efforts among the relevant regional countries to work together and find an effective mechanism for coordination and the formation of a negotiating bloc within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Iran and the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council — that will be disproportionately exposed to a rise in temperatures.
That grouping would be tasked with coordinating regional efforts to manage water resources, address climate change, enhance environmental protection and work together to confront drought.
more specifically, climate challenges.


  
     1232     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ISL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Paris Agreement is also in jeopardy.
Over the past months, we have witnessed the increased intensity of climate change and natural disasters in the form of flooding, drought and extreme weather patterns.
The BBNJ agreement is a testament to the importance and effectiveness of multilateralism when it comes to tackling the triple planetary threat of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.


  
     1233     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ITA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Italy’s attention is particularly focused on Africa, where nations already beleaguered by long periods of drought and by the effects of climate change now face a situation compounded by food insecurity, making them more vulnerable to instability and an easier prey for terrorism and fundamentalism.


  
     1234     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_JAM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are proud to have led and participated in global efforts to pursue reform of the international financial architecture and to improve access to affordable financing for development, including climate finance.
Unfortunately, the multilateral system itself has faced significant challenges over the past few years: the pandemic, a war in Europe, shifting geopolitical tides and a stubborn resistance to the realities of climate change, to name a few.
As we look forward to the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28).
we recall the breakthrough agreement secured at COP27 to establish a Loss and Damage Fund.
We also expect that all States will commit to the achievement of net zero fossil fuel production and to keeping 1.5°C alive.
We are playing our part through our more ambitious nationally determined contributions to bolster our society, economy and country against the existential threat of climate change.
In that regard, we are working assiduously to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions; to increase reforestation, including through our 3 million trees in 3 years project; to reduce plastic waste, including in the marine environment; to accelerate the energy transition towards renewables; and to address coastal erosion and risks to biodiversity both on land and at sea.
Having just completed the Climate Ambition Summit, we urge major and emerging economies to elevate their ambition and to deliver on their commitments under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Jamaica looks forward to having tangible outcomes focusing on the climate crisis, biodiversity and issues related to debt.


  
     1235     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_JOR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

And we face those pressures just when another crisis has hit our region: climate change, with its destructive heat waves, drought and flooding.
We speak for victims of conflict, displacement, hunger, climate-change disasters and more.


  
     1236     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_JPN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The world is facing complex and interrelated issues, ranging from climate change and infectious diseases to challenges to the rule of law.
Under the Asia Zero Emission Community initiative.
Japan will further support disaster risk reduction for countries vulnerable to climate change, including island States, aiding efforts towards resilient economies and societies against sea level rise and natural disasters associated with extreme weather events.
The ocean is a new frontier with abundant potential, and it is essential to take comprehensive measures, including making use of blue carbon to tackle climate change.
even after the future regression of coastlines due to sea level rise.


  
     1237     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KAZ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The urgency of climate action risks become a cliche, but it is a dangerous cliche because immediate, effective and transformational steps are urgently required to prioritize environmental protection.
Even if we successfully limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C by 2030 — which is looking increasingly unlikely — we will experience between 2°C and 2.5°C of temperature rise in Central Asia.
Despite the long road of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we must all remain committed to a carbon-free future.
The climate agenda should not be used to introduce measures restricting trade and investment cooperation.
Instead we must focus on positive change, such as the climate-positive actions identified by the United Nations, including investing in green jobs, ending fossil fuel subsidies, and ensuring that all climate actions are fair and inclusive and involve women at all levels.
Yet without proper funding, ambitious plans to combat climate change will remain unmet.
A gradual, sustainable and socially responsible transition away from coal would be a big bonus for global climate change goals.
Kazakhstan’s initiative to open a project office for Central Asia on climate change and green energy in Almaty can lead on those issues.
We look forward to hosting a regional climate summit in Kazakhstan in 2026 under United Nations auspices.
We must therefore combine political will and economic resources to address that critical global issue, simultaneously with climate action.


  
     1238     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KEN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The failure of peace and security systems, inadequate development and limited climate action, amidst technological advancement and enormous wealth, have left us in a state of paralysis, enduring one of the darkest periods of human existence.
In the face of the most urgent crises of our time, it is now clear that the international community has fallen seriously behind in meeting its targets in both climate action and the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as their underlying enablers, peace and security.
As we mobilize to show up for Ukraine and countries that have experienced the devastating impact of climate shocks, including Libya.
We must recognize that stability, peace and security form the foundation on which the pursuit and realization of sustainable development and climate action stand.
The tragic spectacle of young people from Africa boarding rickety contraptions to gamble their lives away on dangerous voyages in pursuit of opportunities abroad, either as conflict, climate and economic refugees, is a testament to the failures of the global economic system.
At the recently concluded Africa Climate Summit in Nairobi, we undertook to begin the journey to course-correct and execute a paradigm shift in our pursuit of development and climate action.
First, we recognize that both climate action and the Sustainable Development Goals must be pursued simultaneously with greater resolve, urgency and ambition.
No meaningful development can take place in countries that are also struggling with climate shocks and yet.
at the same time, the frequency of climate emergencies impedes any meaningful development.
As a defining outcome of the Africa Climate Summit.
From our standpoint, there is no need to be trapped in a false choice; sustainable development is robust climate action and climate action is development.
Such investment would drive green growth, creating jobs and wealth while decarbonizing global production and consumption.
No meaningful climate action or development can take place in conditions of financial distress.
The 3.3 billion people in those counties are trapped in a vicious cycle 
of emergency responses, reconstruction and recovery from more frequent climate shocks, which diverts resources away from both development and climate action and sucks vulnerable countries into a downward spiral of debt and environmental stress.
The fourth limb of the interventions arising out of the Nairobi Declaration is the establishment of a global public climate financing mechanism, funded through a global carbon tax on trade in fossil fuels, as well as an emissions levy on aviation and maritime transport, including the option of a global financial transactions tax.
The road map to that new and urgently needed institutional infrastructure involves the sustained engagement of various multilateral processes, and the instrument to actualize it by 2025 shall be a new global climate finance charter to be negotiated through the General Assembly, the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and associated processes.


  
     1239     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KGZ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

I am convinced that current global challenges and risks — from the climate crisis and the threat to food security to growing inequality — should, on the contrary, unite all the members of the international community.
Problems such as extreme poverty and climate change can be solved only by finding a global, collective response.
The current reality is that developing countries face a dual challenge: the need to invest in development while simultaneously adapting to climate change.
In that regard, we call for urgent action to implement the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing for development, and specifically for the swift establishment of the fund aimed at providing compensation to countries for losses and damages related to climate change, alleviating the burden of external debt and improving the international architecture for debt resolution.
At previous climate change summits and conferences, ambitious statements and promises were made.
It is also clear that the level of annual funding announced in 2015 under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is no longer sufficient.
We consider it necessary to revise and significantly increase the level of funding that meets the real needs of countries vulnerable to climate change.
Another problem is that most climate finance is provided to low- and middle-income countries in the form of loans.
That undermines the very essence and purpose of climate agreements.
We call on donors to reconsider their approaches in favour of climate finance to countries in need on a grant basis.
We support the Bridgetown Initiative, proposed at the 27th Climate Change Conference, held in Sharm el-
In the light of global climate change, mountainous regions have been particularly vulnerable.
Mountain glaciers are an integral part of the Earth’s cryosphere, not only influencing the climate of our planet but also providing a habitat for flora and fauna and supplying water to people.
Climate change in Central Asia has led to the intensive melting of glaciers.
In accordance with the latest assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the adverse effects of cryospheric changes are particularly acute for the residents of high mountain regions, where ecosystems have reached the limits of adaptation.
We believe that climate adaptation and the transition to a green economy will be among the main priorities of that future coalition.


  
     1240     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KHM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, meanwhile, is threatening the existence of humankind.
I am confident that his call for an SDG Stimulus — to invest $500 billion a year in sustainable development and climate action between now and 2030 — will put the progress on SDG implementation back on track.
The climate solidarity pact that he proposed will lead to a reduction of emissions in line with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
on the other, building and strengthening the foundations necessary to accelerate national development through resilience in five areas — the public sector, the economy, the financial sector, human and social capital, and the environment, including climate change response.


  
     1241     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KIR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Geopolitical tensions, economic disparities and the unforeseen challenges brought about by events like pandemics, climate-related crises and disasters have tested the resolve of national Governments, their peoples and their partners.
It encourages countries not only to recognize but also to deliver actions to resolve issues such as poverty, inequality, climate change and health care.
Kiribati is faced with significant challenges due to its geographical isolation, the scattered situation of its islands within its 3.5 -million-square-kilometre economic exclusive zone, and its vulnerability to climate change, to name but a few.
At the forefront of climate change.


  
     1242     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KNA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must maintain our focus on the climate challenge.
The behemoth industrial countries and companies are pushing small island developing States (SIDS) and others onto the front lines of climate change.
As a result, countries like mine, which are unable to access concessionary funding, are forced to fix the climate crisis by obtaining loans at exorbitant rates from the very countries where the problem originated.
Our carbon footprint, as a country, is very small, and yet we are facing the existential threat of climate change.
We therefore call for climate justice.
we have made strides towards geothermal energy production and have utilized loans from the Caribbean Development Bank for that national development project, together with the collaboration of groups such as the Atlantic Council and the United States-Caribbean Partnership to Address the Climate Crisis.


  
     1243     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KOR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate crisis is another challenge that exacerbates the economic divide between nations and impedes humankind’s sustainable development.
This past July, we experienced the hottest summer ever recorded on Earth.
Climate change is causing geopolitical shifts in agriculture and fisheries, worsening the crises in countries that are vulnerable to food shortages.
To assist countries that are vulnerable to climate change in reducing their carbon emissions and accelerating their transition to clean energy.
In particular, we will contribute an additional $300 million to the Green Climate Fund.
We anticipate the international community’s active financial support for the Green Climate Fund.
We also hope that the international community’s collective resolve to bridge the climate divide will lead to tangible actions.
Korea will not only harness renewable energy, but it will also extensively employ high-efficiency carbon-free energy, such as nuclear power and hydrogen, as a realistic measure for accelerating our pursuit of carbon neutrality.
We also plan to share those energy sources with countries that are vulnerable to climate change, ensuring that they can benefit as well.
Korea aims to pursue international joint research on carbon-free energy and facilitate technological innovation and investments from the private sector.
Korea will also launch a carbon-free alliance — an open platform that anyone in the world can join to promote the adoption of carbon-free energy.


  
     1244     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_KWT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The current dangers and threats in the world — including conflicts among States, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, increasing 
terrorism and high levels of poverty, in addition to threats posed by natural disasters and climate change as well as challenges related to food insecurity, not to mention emerging threats to cybersecurity — demand that we seek international cooperation based on partnership and responsibility.
We have also committed to ensuring carbon neutrality in the oil sector by 2050.
We hope that the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will take place in Dubai, the sisterly United Arab Emirates, will be successful.
We are counting on the necessary support by the international community for the relevant guidelines to implement the various elements of the Paris Agreement.


  
     1245     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LAO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Lao People’s Democratic Republic has considerable natural capital, rich biodiversity and abundant water resources, as well as the opportunity for renewable energy development and investment in carbon capture and storage, which can provide the country with significant development potential.
Although the Lao People’s Democratic Republic is among the countries that contribute the least to global emissions, like others, we are a victim of climate change.
Nevertheless, we have strongly committed ourselves to the international climate obligations.
My Government has already adopted its national strategy for climate change, but ensuring its full and effective implementation will require sufficient financial resources and technical assistance.
That means access to climate finance and other funding resources, which would greatly support developing countries.
In that regard, my country urges the realization of the international commitment to mobilize $100 billion in climate finance for the countries in need of it most.
our delegation trusts that the outcome of the Climate Ambition Summit 2023 will lay a foundation for concrete actions in the lead up to the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     1246     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LBN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We have always said that the world is witnessing cross-border challenges that require greater coordination and cooperation among countries, from climate change and viral pandemics to security, food security, cybersecurity, illegal migration, extremism and terrorism, to name but a few.
Lebanon has sought to continue to implement the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
It also actively participated in the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27).
held in Sharm El-Sheikh, the Arab Republic of Egypt, and looks forward to the same level of active participation in the COP28 climate conference, to be held in Dubai.


  
     1247     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LBR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

As the world deals with unprecedented global political and security challenges, there are growing concerns about the proliferation of non-State armed actors, threats of nuclear escalation and extreme climate conditions.
Our world is also under threat from natural calamities, as seen in extreme climate conditions globally.
It is therefore our collective responsibility to urgently prioritize addressing the climate crisis as we strive to reach a target of a 64 per cent reduction in carbon emissions.
There remains a need to prioritize support to countries, including Liberia, that have the capacity to use their biodiversity in building resilience against the changing climate.


  
     1248     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LCA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

There are many amongst us — the small and marginalized islands of our globe, surrounded by rising seas and scorched by rising temperatures — who are beginning to question this annual parade of flowery speeches and public pretence of brotherhood otherwise known as the annual general debate of the General Assembly.
we cannot speak of accelerated action for the Sustainable Development Goals for 
developing countries, when developed countries do not treat the climate challenges facing developing countries with the sense of urgency and importance they deserve.
Have they not understood that climate change is a danger not only to the existence of small island States, but to the survival of all countries today, and not tomorrow?
In just about two months, we shall be travelling yet again to another conference on climate change, the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28).
We will be doing so with the current extreme and extraordinary weather events graphically demonstrating the gravity of the climate crisis.
Libya and the other countries that have recently suffered the obvious ravages of climate change.
The new manifestations of the crisis are signalling to us that the goal of 1.5°C to stay alive is now very much at risk.
If COP28 is to be transformational and not another disappointing.
Nero- like conference, then it must deliver an ambitious global climate action plan to 2030 if it is to answer to the necessity for climate justice for developing countries like Saint Lucia.
Having said that, we wish to reiterate, however, that what is critically needed is a complete reform of the global financial system to make development financing truly developmental and climate financing truly just.
Prime Minister Mia Mottley of Barbados, which argues for resilient finance mechanisms that will address both the climate and development crises facing developing countries.
Both plans are an appeal for immediate action, and they provide a practical pathway to sustainable development and climate justice.
Is there the political will to place those financial resources instead into the productive action of responding to the climate crisis?


  
     1249     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LIE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our window to address climate change is rapidly narrowing.
In recent years, climate change has occupied an increasingly central place in our discussions.
This year again, we are urgently reminded of the limited window that we have to address the climate crisis.
From weather extremes to sea level rise, all regions of the world are affected by climate change.
We hope to see significant progress at the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meeting, to be held in Abu Dhabi later this year.
For climate change as well, the law must guide us.
That is why we have strongly supported the request for an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the question of climate change.
We are confident that the Court will help us to have clarity regarding the complex legal questions concerning climate change, and thus assist in our common fight against that most existential threat.
That is meant to help to reverse the negative trends in the fields of poverty reduction, food security and access to education, as well as climate protection.


  
     1250     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LKA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

financing for development and climate ambition, at which we agreed that international solidarity and collective action are needed to address those simultaneously.
The cross-border financial impacts of crises, such as climate change and the pandemic, are impeding the ability of smaller indebted countries, such as mine, to make progress on the SDGs and climate adaptation and mitigation.
Last year, at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we outlined our climate ambition plan.
we would have 70 per cent renewable energy in electricity generation, increase forest cover by 32 per cent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 14.5 per cent.
We will phase out coal by 2040 and reach net zero by 2050.
Our low- carbon development trajectory has given us one of the lowest per capita carbon emission rates of any lower middle-income country.
Adverse climate outcomes are spilling over into our tight fiscal space just as we begin to stabilize from last year’s economic crisis.
As Sri Lanka is a climate-vulnerable developing country in debt crisis, the urgent need to mobilize climate finance is greater today than it ever was before.
National efforts alone will not suffice to ensure the success of the SDGs and reverse climate change.
combatting climate change and the concrete interventions required by creditors sovereign and private, as well as by the international financial institutions, including to mitigate the debt crisis.
If we are unable to restructure the global fiscal order, then certainly we will fail in the struggle to reverse climate change and achieve the SDG goals.
Therefore, the Summit of the Future should not craft new programmes, but restructure the present financial architecture to suit the needs created by climate change and sustainable development.
Unfortunately, the Security Council has failed to give priority to the connected issues of climate change, debt relief and sustainable development.
While we seek solidarity and financing to alleviate poverty and climate challenges, global military expenditures have risen today to record levels reaching $2.24 trillion.


  
     1251     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LSO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, poverty, hunger, diseases, lack of employment, mainly for the youth, and abuse of human rights threaten to overwhelm the international system.
Climate change is also one of the formidable challenges of our time.
In the midst of the climate change crisis, we believe that there is a silver lining on the horizon that may enable us to turn around the fortunes of our people.
At the same time, we urge developed countries to meet their financial commitments to providing $100 billion a year to developing States for the implementation of the Paris Agreement.


  
     1252     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LTU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must rise to the challenges and work together to preserve peace, prosperity and stability, to safeguard the rules-based order, democracy and the universality of human rights, to save our home, planet Earth, from the effects of disastrous climate change and to fight hard against global poverty and inequality.
I am standing here to express my great concern about the devastating impact of climate change and to share the Lithuanian experience.
We need decisive action to keep the goals and spirit of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change alive.
Lithuania is resolutely committed to preventing, minimizing and addressing climate change.
We aim to achieve a 70 per cent reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030 and become climate-neutral in 2050.
Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is aggravating the global situation across many areas, such as food and energy security, climate, finance, global health and migration.


  
     1253     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LUX_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

He has called on us to rebuild international peace and security, to show leadership in the fight against climate change, and to support efforts to promote and ensure the full enjoyment of human rights by all.
To respond to global threats, from Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine to climate change, from poverty to pandemics, we must act.
Our climate action is also not very popular these days, because it is never popular when we act to change people’s daily lives.
There are those who do not believe in climate change, and I have heard politicians express doubt about climate change from this very rostrum.
Luxembourg shares the Secretary-General’s commitment to solving the climate crisis.
I was fortunate enough to be present when we reached the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015.
We will support negotiations at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to establish the new Loss and Damage Fund to help developing countries that are particularly vulnerable.
We are also strengthening our international climate finance, which is in addition to our official development assistance.
My Government has just decided to increase Luxembourg’s contribution to the Green Climate Fund by 25 per cent for the period 2024-2027.


  
     1254     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_LVA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Latvia also recognizes the climate-induced challenges that small island developing States (SIDS) face.
We will continue to follow the evolving work of the International Law Commission on the legal aspects of sea level rise, and we are already engaged in international legal proceedings addressing the obligations of States regarding climate change.


  
     1255     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MAR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The earthquake that struck Morocco, the hurricane and floods that hit our sister State of Libya and the phenomenon of climate change generally continue to represent the greatest challenge facing humankind across the world.
This session is being held in a critical global context, marked by many challenges related to geopolitical tensions, climate change, poverty, migration, terrorism, hate speech, pandemics and natural disasters.


  
     1256     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MCO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is why Monaco signed the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity and.
I believe it is essential to recognize that those new instruments offer us powerful tools to combat climate change.
The crucial role of seas and oceans in climate regulation is now clearly recognized and allows us to approach that challenge holistically.
Make no mistake: we can win the climate battle only by moving forward towards achieving all the Sustainable Development Goals, which we established together eight years ago.
Physical changes to the marine environment and coastal areas, ocean acidification and sea level rise are other phenomena that pose threats to the very existence of coastal communities in many countries.
The desire of the Secretary-General to bring together the leaders of States, representatives of private institutions and civil society in the framework of the Climate Ambition Summit could not be timelier given that the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has alerted us once again to the inadequacy of our collective efforts to combat that planetary scourge.
we began the initial process of assessing the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
That global assessment, which will culminate at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, cannot be allowed to fail.
On the contrary, we must seize the last opportunity offered to us to correct our course with a view to limiting global warming to 1.5°C.
The Government of Monaco will therefore contribute to the reconstitution of the Green Climate Fund in the amount of €3.3 million for the period 2024-2027.
That represents an increase of 10 per cent as compared to the previous period, even though Monaco is already the leading donor per capita to that instrument that is so crucial to the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
While the still unexplained phenomenon of cooling in the Eastern Pacific Ocean challenges researchers, the United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development offers us an opportunity to better understand the complex phenomenon of climate change.


  
     1257     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MDV_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our global community today is grappling with multifaceted challenges, from ongoing and new conflicts to pandemics, climate change to food insecurities, gender-based inequalities to intolerance.
Secondly, we must confront the climate crisis.
Warming beyond 1.5°C will lead to catastrophic ecological loss, causing severe damage to our lives and livelihoods.
We have recognized that the climate crisis is a threat to security, development and human rights at 
multiple platforms.
Domestically, we will continue to display strong and ambitious climate action.
At the upcoming the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28).
we must all raise climate ambition to secure our future, for the future.
As we approach the first ever global stocktake at COP28. science must be given precedence.
A definitive road map to reduce emissions, in line with the main goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, is crucial.
Given the inherent link between climate and the ocean, we must also do more to protect that vast and important resource.
We have seen the value of working together to fight climate change and protect our environment.
Earlier this year, we asked the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion on the obligation of States with respect to climate change.
We will also continue to raise our voice on the links between climate change and sea-level rise and peace and security, which are becoming more and more apparent.


  
     1258     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MEX_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the words of Nicholas Stern, climate change is a result of the greatest market failure the world has seen, and today it is one of the greatest global risks.
We reiterate our commitment to moving forward with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, but underscore the importance of financing to address climate change and prioritize adaptation, especially with a view to supporting the most vulnerable nations, starting with the Caribbean in our region.
Mexico has participated in the SDG Summit, the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development, the Climate Action Summit and the preparatory meeting for the Summit of the Future.
such initiatives as the Plan for Self-sufficiency on Health Matters for Latin America and the Caribbean, the Regional Medicines Agency for Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Fund for Climate Adaptation.


  
     1259     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MHL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Together we now face an economic shock, increasing global tension and intensified climate impacts.
Today the Marshall Islands is encountering insurmountable challenges in coping with sea level rise, the erosion of shorelines, flooding caused by high tides, coral bleaching, the intrusion of seawater into taro and crop lands and the rapid deterioration of the ocean ecological system.
Moreover, the warming of the ocean has affected sustainable coastal fisheries and has had a direct negative impact on our way of life.
The Marshall Islands leaders have raised the alarm and called the world’s attention to the dangers posed by the climate change monster since we became a Member of this body in 1991.
For more than 30 years, the world has been meeting and talking about the adverse effect of global warming and climate change.
We hailed the historic conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
However, eight years have gone by. carbon emission levels remain high and the planet is getting hotter with each passing day.
As a matter of fact, the Secretary-General himself has affirmed that the era of global warming has ended and that now we have entered the age of global boiling.
May I again reiterate my humble call for the world to declare war on climate change.
The future of the Marshall Islands and all low-lying island States hangs in the balance.
but also rising seas and changing oceans.
The world has spent a full generation falling short in our common goals to prevent dangerous climate change.
At the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the global stocktake must mark the turning point at which we all recognize that we are collectively failing to deliver on the Paris Agreement.
That ambitious road map must include the phase-out of fossil fuels.
While we must use every tool at our disposal, we cannot place our hope in dreams of unproven, untested solutions or use abatement technology to give the green light to the continued expansion of fossil fuels.
For the most vulnerable nations, adequate, predictable and accessible finance is crucial, particularly for adapting to prepare for the current and future onslaught of the impacts of climate change and to address the loss and damage that are already being experienced.
We need donors to deliver on their existing commitments and to come together to address the climate finance crisis in a way that is led by science and the needs of vulnerable States.
Those challenges may be inconvenient for large economies, but I can affirm that the climate impacts already at our door, and those yet to come are decidedly more inconvenient for low-lying atoll States such as mine and for other island nations around the world.
Is it too much to ask that the United Nations declare war on climate change and global boiling, poverty, racism, injustices, the inequitable distribution of wealth, the wide gulf between the haves and the have-nots and the exploitation of the planet’s finite resources?


  
     1260     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MKD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Along those lines, it is necessary to address the issue of climate change far more resolutely.
The region of South-East Europe, where I come from, is facing phenomena unknown to date: so-called supercell storms verging on tornadoes, which are a direct consequence of climate change.
Global warming, as the Secretary-General has said, is now becoming global boiling.
The necessary instruments, such as the Climate Solidarity Pact, whereby developed economies provide financial and technical support to those in development have already been set; an equitable transition towards a green economy is possible, but only through their adequate implementation.
According to the Climate Action Acceleration Agenda, developed countries should not only achieve a level of zero net emissions by 2040.
but also keep their promises to the countries in development by doubling the resources for adaptation and funding of the Green Climate Fund.
The greatest threats of the present — geopolitical turbulence, wars, terrorism, climate change and 
massive migration waves — are arising at a time when international organizations and the entire multilateral system are going through an identity or a functionality crisis, and most often, both.


  
     1261     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MLI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is a genuine threat to the current and future generations.
In that regard, the time has come to effectively implement the decisions of our summits and sessions of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
It is more important than ever that the countries responsible for climate change assume their full and complete responsibilities, including that of supporting the efforts of countries of the South to achieve development that respects the environment.


  
     1262     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MLT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The biggest threat to our planet is clearly climate change.
Climate change is not some sort of abstract problem; it is a very real emergency the consequences of which are being felt in every part of the world.
Current pledges and targets are not sufficient to keep the 1.5°C objective of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change within reach.
Rising sea levels are a severe threat to the security, the livelihood and.
That is why we have made climate and oceans the number one priority during our term on the Security Council.
To give the debate new momentum, we made a high- level meeting on the implications of rising sea levels for peace and security the signature event of our presidency of the Security Council in February (see S/PV. 9260).
And we enthusiastically extend our support for the newly created coalition on addressing sea-level rise and existential threats.
It is not just the direct consequences of rising sea levels that we need to be concerned about.
Rising sea levels also threaten the very territorial integrity of States as a result of coastal inundation, with a consequent danger of disputes and conflict.
I wish therefore to reiterate in the strongest terms, as I did at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, that no coastal State should lose any of its existing rights over its maritime zones due to rising sea levels.
we are committed to our Island for Islands initiative, delivering concrete, practical support for those small island nations — the nations most exposed to the impact of climate change.


  
     1263     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MNE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The international community must increase its efforts to combat climate change with concrete actions.
That includes the full implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and addressing the interconnected crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.


  
     1264     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MNG_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Despite the world’s collective accomplishment in overcoming the threat of the global pandemic, we still face a range of challenges stemming from geostrategic and geopolitical tensions, socioeconomic crises, climate change and rapid technological advances.
The recent global challenges, such as the pandemic, climate change, geopolitical conflicts, financial and debt crises, poverty and hunger, have significantly hindered development, particularly in developing countries, in which progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is lagging.
Climate change is sending a distress call and a warning alarm of the impending threat that looms over human life and the existence of humankind on Earth.
The 2023 report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warns that, if global temperature increases by half a degree, it will lead to increased poverty, heatwaves, sea level rise, coral reef decline, habitat loss and severe drought.
Every increment of global warming will be immeasurably costly.
Governments should take urgent measures to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, heed the guidance of scientists, raise public awareness, regulate resource utilization, preserve and restore biological diversity, foster ecologically friendly and economically efficient technologies, such as the use of renewable energy, and substantially bolster climate financing.
Mongolia successfully organized the Female Foreign Ministers’ Meeting, at which the participants held constructive discussions on presenting solutions to the pressing issues facing humankind and the international community, including global peace and security, climate change and food security.


  
     1265     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MOZ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, the coronavirus disease pandemic crisis, natural disasters arising from climate change and armed conflicts, including terrorism and violent extremism, are compelling millions of people to continue living in poverty without adequate food or access to education and health services.
I will try to focus attention on peace and security, counter-terrorism, climate change, energy transition, the blue economy and environmental conservation, in tandem with the theme of this session.
Climate change constitutes the main crisis of humankind in this century.
For decades, scientific evidence has shown that our planet is on the verge of climate catastrophe.
However, despite the evidence and commitments assumed yearly at various conferences on climate change, the situation has deteriorated.
As with many conflicts, the main cause of climate crisis is a lack of trust and solidarity, coupled with the selfishness of some countries.
The countries that pollute most continue producing emissions that cause global warming and climate change.
As a consequence, heat waves, cyclones, floods, droughts, earthquakes, sea level rise, uncontrolled fire and other extreme phenomena have become increasingly frequent throughout the world.
Energy transition requires large investments in power-generation projects from clean sources.
Once again, most industrialized countries are invited to show greater solidarity by increasing their climate funds.
We are also a country with robust environmental legislation that incorporates major international conventions, including the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Convention on the Protection of Endangered Species, among others.
In the framework of nationally determined commitments, in 2021 Mozambique became the first African country to receive payments from the World Bank trust fund to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.
With regard to that initiative to protect nature, we count on the support of bilateral and multilateral partners in the conservation of the Miombo forest, which can contribute significantly to capturing carbon on the planet.


  
     1266     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MRT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

That will help us to achieve the objective of an 11 per cent drop in carbon emissions.
The twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, set to take place in the United Arab Emirates, is for us a source of great hope.
We call on industrialized States to honour the commitments that they undertook in the area of greenhouse-gas emissions and those that they made during the Paris summit.
Our efforts in the area of energy transition are accompanied by a continued fight against desertification and other forms of climate change, with a view to restoring the balance of our ecosystems.


  
     1267     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MUS_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is a matter of great pride to see a fellow islander preside over the proceedings of the seventy-eighth session of the General Assembly, especially at a time when the world is faced with a myriad of interlocking challenges amidst conflicts, climate chaos, inequality and hunger.
The list of problems is daunting, from a lingering coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, climate change, declining biodiversity, food and energy insecurity, cybercrime, terrorism, large-scale migration, gender inequality and a general pushback against human rights, to inadequate development financing, increasing debt burdens and geopolitical crises.
Scaled-up action to reduce emissions to align with goals set forth in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is becoming imperative.
Even within the 1.5°C goal, the small island developing States (SIDS) are facing an existential threat.
To secure a sustainable future, we must collectively phase out fossil fuel usage and hasten the just transition to sustainable energy sources, targeting net zero emissions globally by 2050.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change sixth assessment report has already warned that further delay will mean missing “a brief and rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a liveable and sustainable future for all”.
SIDS like Mauritius wrestle with coastal erosion, marine pollution, and coral bleaching.
Sea-level rise and climate-related disasters loom large.
Mauritius is facing a rise in sea level of 5.6 millimetres annually, almost twice the global average of 3.3 millimetres.
Mauritius is spending about 2 per cent of its gross domestic product (GDP) on environment and climate change-related policies.
Our Climate Change Act serves as the cornerstone of our commitment to fulfilling our obligations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreement, and other related instruments on climate change.
We have also formulated a nationally appropriate mitigation actions for low-carbon strategy.
Mauritius is also committed to implementing a series of adaptation and mitigation measures aimed at reducing its greenhouse-gas emissions by 40 per cent and achieving 60 per cent of energy production from green sources by 2030.
Indeed, all SIDS need adequate and predictable support, including climate finance, from the international community.
We call on the international financial institutions and development partners to ensure that access to climate finance by SIDS is simplified and made easier.
We look forward to the swift operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund agreed upon at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Developed countries must urgently deliver on their promise made 14 years ago at the United Nations Climate Change Conference, held in Copenhagen, to provide climate finance of $100 billion per year.
that amount is no longer sufficient, so there is a need to 
make the scale of climate finance commensurate with the challenge through the new collective quantified goal on climate finance.
Mauritius believes firmly that the SDG Stimulus and the Bridgetown Initiative can accelerate progress towards the SDGs and the Paris Agreement.
We will continue to invest in water storage capacities to face the effects of climate change and achieve long-term water security.


  
     1268     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MWI_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We need decision and action on the climate financing that has thus far been nothing more than a promissory note from the developed countries responsible for resourcing our efforts for mitigation, adaptation and.
We need a new paradigm that celebrates and rewards the developed nations that fulfil their commitment to financing climate resilience projects in developing countries.
We need a new paradigm that establishes effective carbon markets to empower developing nations like Malawi with the resources necessary for achieving sustainability and implementing their national adaptation plans.


  
     1269     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_MYS_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Scientists have confirmed that the world has just experienced its hottest summer in history.
We have heard Secretary-General Guterres gravely declare that climate breakdown has begun.
Even Malaysia is seeing an increase in the adverse impacts of climate change, with increasing temperatures, rising sea levels, intensified monsoons and erratic weather patterns disrupting livelihoods and degrading local ecosystems.
Malaysia is doing its part by developing low- carbon and renewable energy road maps to implement mitigating and adaptation strategies.
The newly launched National Energy Transition Roadmap should aid us in achieving our nationally determined contributions, as well as lighting the path towards our net zero aspirations.
Discussions on climate change in the absence of equity, justice and the necessary means to assist and empower countries to undertake greater climate action are an exercise in futility.
We also urge the developed countries to fulfil their commitment to mobilizing $100 billion a year to support the climate ambition endeavours of developing countries, while recognizing that trillions of dollars per annum will be needed in the near future.


  
     1270     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NAM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

As we march towards the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change for the final global stocktake, we are acutely aware that the energy transition is not only a necessity in combating climate change but also an opportunity for economic development.
Consistent with their pledges made at the United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Paris in 2015.
Namibia boldly announced its intention to change its economic structure by leveraging innovative financial tools to mobilize sustainable climate financing in order to combat climate change.
Scotland, on the margins of COP 26.
we announced the development of large-scale green hydrogen projects that would provide the world with the clean molecules needed to decarbonize hard- to-abate sectors.
Today we have more than five such projects under development and are looking to deploy more than $20 billion in order to develop our world-class renewable energy potential to give our future generations a fighting chance against a warming planet.
Developing a new synthetic fuels industry in Namibia is not just an opportunity to fight climate change; indeed, it also offers an unparalleled opportunity for green industrialization.
One such pioneering example is Project Oshivela by Uy Iron, which plans to use Namibian-produced green hydrogen to deliver the first industrial production of iron at net-zero emissions.
Project Oshivela will be one of the biggest primary production sites of green iron worldwide and is expected to sequestrate 27.000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year — equivalent to 50 per cent of the carbon dioxide emissions of Namibia’s entire power industry today.
That is why Namibia is now developing green shipping corridors with the Maersk Mc-Kinney Moller Center for Zero-Carbon Shipping as we look to map and fund the development of carbon-neutral maritime value chains through the production, transportation, storage and consumption of clean fuels and carbon-free products made in Namibia and traded with the world.
By holding hands and by renewing our commitment to multilateralism, we can reverse the worst effects of the unprecedented global challenges of global warming, global inequality, pandemics and conflicts.


  
     1271     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NGA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Fifthly, climate change severely impacts Nigeria and Africa.
African nations will fight climate change but must do so on fair and just terms.
Projects such as a green wall to stop desert encroachment, halting the destruction of our forests by mass production and the distribution of gas-burning stoves, and providing employment in local water management and irrigation projects are examples of efforts that advance both economic and climate change objectives equally.
Continental efforts regarding climate change would register important victories if established economies were more forthcoming with public and private sector investment for Africa’s preferred initiatives.


  
     1272     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NLD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must combat climate change, fight hunger and poverty, and protect peace and security in many places all over the world.
Let us consider climate change, or poverty, or conflict.
Or let us consider climate change.
partnerships with the countries hit hardest by climate change.
Today I will speak with the representatives of several small island developing States about climate adaptation and about ways of exchanging knowledge, expertise and innovative solutions.
The Netherlands is increasing its annual contribution to international climate finance to €1.8 billion by 2025.
and over half of that will go to climate adaptation.
In two months’ time we will gather in Dubai to take stock of our progress towards the Paris climate goals, but we already know that we are way off track, so something has to be done right now.
We have a collective interest in making sure that potential can be tapped, because if we do not help Africa to grow sustainably, we will all miss our climate goals.
The twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change must mark a course correction.
There, we must agree and explain how the world will get on track to meet the 1.5°C goal.


  
     1273     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NOR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We simply cannot fail to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement targets.
We have enhanced our climate target and will cut emissions by at least 55 per cent by 2030.
We are increasing carbon taxes.
We are expanding the uptake of zero-emission technologies in the transport sector.
We are investing heavily in offshore wind, carbon capture and storage and a green industrial future.
We are actively participating in the climate negotiations and will go to the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Dubai with the aim to keep the 1.5°C target alive.
In Glasgow, we announced that we would double our climate financing by 2026.
Together with philanthropists, multilateral development banks and other partners, we will work to unlock renewable energy access in emerging economies, creating an energy system for the future, reducing emissions, facilitating job creation and.
as well as Norway’s Climate Investment Fund, we have mobilized significant investments.
Food security is part and parcel of the climate agenda and a defining challenge of our time.
Those are important steps, not just because they will improve food security, but because we must transform the food system if we are to reach our climate goals.


  
     1274     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NPL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

However, crises such as the coronavirus disease pandemic, climate change and heightened geopolitical competition have threatened our hard-earned progress in achieving the SDGs.
Climate change has assumed a crisis proportion, and the clock is ticking.
Climate vulnerable mountainous countries like Nepal have been bearing the severe brunt of climate change.
Global warming has induced the rapid receding of ice in our Himalayas.
The human and financial toll due to floods, droughts and other extreme climate-induced events is terrifying.
On our part, we remain fully committed to the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and achieving its goals.
Easy access to climate finance will be the key to low-carbon and climate-resilient development pathways.
The early operationalization of the loss and damage fund is equally crucial, as well as fulfilling the target of the $100 billion commitment and doubling adaptation climate finance.
Nepal — 45 per cent of whose area is richly biodiverse forest and 15 per cent high mountains — releases far less in terms of greenhouse-gas emissions while contributing significantly to ecological preservation, and yet has suffered unfairly from the climate crisis.
That kind of mismatch must be addressed through a compensation mechanism to the countries that make a positive contribution to the greening of the planet.


  
     1275     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NRU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Even if these strides are taken towards the achievement of the 2030 Agenda, any progress made is at risk if we do not address the threat of climate change.
It is essential that the global community accelerates its efforts to adapt and mitigate climate change and keep a 1.5°C limit to temperature rise within reach.
That cannot be said enough, and so I will say it again: it is essential that the global community accelerates its efforts to adapt and mitigate climate change and keep a 1.5°C limit to temperature rise within reach.
We call on all States to take ambitious action in their implementation of the Paris Agreement and decisions under the Paris Agreement, including the Glasgow Climate Pact and the Sharm El-Sheikh Implementation Plan.
we join the call to reform the international financial system to make climate and development finance more affordable and adequate and positioned to combat the scale of climate crises.
Nauru looks forward to a meaningful twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in the United Arab Emirates, one that achieves the shared ambition and commitment to deliver progress and keep 1.5°C within reach.
We also continue to call on the Secretary-General to appoint a special representative on climate and security.
That could improve the ability of the United Nations to address climate-related security risks, including through regular reporting on the security implications of climate change.
Similarly, we see the need to seek additional paths to climate action and hope that the advisory opinions to come from the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the International Court of Justice will jump-start more ambitious climate action.
Nauru would emphasize that we cannot expect the trajectory of global emissions to slow down and be reduced if viable energy alternatives are not provided.
Deep seabed minerals hold the answer, with polymetallic nodules providing the alternative for big emitters to make a just energy transition away from fossil fuels and towards much cleaner and renewable energy technologies.


  
     1276     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_NZL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are not on track to keep global warming at 1.5°C.
Sustainable development will be achieved only if the international community delivers on its commitments to those who are experiencing the violent realities of climate change.
Climate change is the greatest existential threat facing our planet.
New Zealand is committed to playing its part in the global efforts to combat the triple planetary crisis of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
No country is immune to the impacts of climate change, which are real and happening now.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has sent a very clear message that the world is not on track to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The first global stocktake of the Paris Agreement, which will take place at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to be held later this year, is an opportunity for a course correction.
Limiting warming to 1.5°C is vital to achieve our shared development goals.
Every increment of a degree and every ton of emissions matters.
We call on all countries, especially major emitters, to align their actions with limiting the temperature increase to 1.5°C.
That means committing to a global phase-out of fossil fuels.
Aotearoa New Zealand is taking ambitious action to support the transition to low-emission economies, climate-resilient agriculture and sustainable trade policies.
Domestically, we are transitioning to a low- emission and climate-resilient future and working to meet our 1.5°C-aligned nationally determined contribution.
We have committed to reducing our emissions by 50 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030.
Our first emissions-reduction plan sets out the actions we will take to achieve our first emissions budgets on a pathway to our 2050 target.
We are investing in Pacific resilience, mobilizing climate financing and supporting Pacific partners to prepare and respond to climate-driven events.
At least half of our quadrupled $1.3 billion climate-finance commitment will go to the Pacific.
New Zealand supports Australia’s bid to host COP 31 in 2026.
on requesting an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the obligations of States with respect to climate change.
Going forward, we will work with a diverse coalition to address the adverse impacts of sea level rise, including preserving the heritage, statehood and sovereignty of 
countries facing existential threats as a result of the climate crisis.
Fiercely independent but global in our outlook, we are driven by a strong sense of our responsibility to help to uphold the key tenets of the international rules-based system — respect for State sovereignty and respect for human rights and gender equality, and the will to achieve progress in addressing climate change and nuclear weapons.


  
     1277     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_OMN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Sultanate of Oman is actively implementing various plans and programmes aimed at adapting to climate change and mitigating its effects.
We are also working to promote investment in renewable energy projects, in line with our 2050 carbon-neutral strategy.
My country is committed to participating actively in the upcoming session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, scheduled to take place in November in Dubai.
Those challenges include the exacerbation of climate change, the spread of epidemics and the trafficking of drugs and human beings, in addition to political and sectarian conflicts.


  
     1278     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PAK_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

A succession of exogenous shocks — the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), conflict and climate change — has devastated the economies of many developing countries.
Pakistan also looks forward to the fulfilment of the climate change commitments made at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by the developed world to provide over $100 billion in annual climate finance; allocate at least half of such finance to adaptation in developing countries; operationalize the Fund and funding arrangements for loss and damage; and accelerate their carbon emission mitigation targets to keep alive the goal of restricting global warming to 1.5 °C.
Pakistan’s triple food, fuel and finance challenge is a prime illustration of the impacts of COVID-19, conflicts and climate on developing countries.
Pakistan is one of the countries worst affected by the impacts of climate change.


  
     1279     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PAN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must ask ourselves: How does the climate crisis impact the first three Sustainable Development Goals?
Let us reflect on the conclusions of the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which warns us of an unprecedented escalation of changes in the climate system that is leading us into extreme situations that seriously threaten the maintenance of life on the planet.
The climate crisis is a ticking time bomb and time is running out for all of us.
I also highlight that Panama is one of the seven countries in the world to have been declared carbon negative.
In Panama we have established a carbon footprint reduction programme with a national strategy for green hydrogen and derivatives.
Also, during our administration, in Panama we have imposed an ambitious energy transition agenda with the purpose of identifying and developing accessible, non-polluting energy to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 24 per cent by 2050.
Panama is among the 15 countries in the world most exposed to climatic and natural risks.
In fact, we have already registered the first case of climate displacement in our territory, when the population of Carti Sugtupu island had to relocate due to the rise in sea level.
Panama, as a country that contributes effectively to the protection of the environment, asks the most polluting countries to honour the commitments they have made to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.
We have also seen repeatedly, in the meetings of the General Assembly and the Conferences of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, how countries commit to making changes that are later not fulfilled.


  
     1280     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PER_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The crises caused by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, climate change, growing geopolitical tensions, armed conflicts and increased food prices are overwhelming our people and have stymied our potential for growth and development.
Climate change, the loss of biodiversity and pollution are putting our very existence as humankind at risk.
Finally, we have the growing threat of the coastal El Nino phenomenon, which will be followed by the impact of the global El Nino.
Developing countries have made progress in reducing carbon emissions, but we continue to be the most affected by climate disasters.
It is still possible to limit the increase in global temperature to within 1.5°C.
as we proposed in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, but strong actions will be necessary.
That will require developed countries not only to adopt more ambitious emissions reduction goals, but also to honour their commitments in technology transfer and climate financing.
Today more than ever, it is urgent to mobilize the $100 billion annually that have been committed to climate action 
in developing countries, as well as to establish the loss and damage fund agreed upon at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The Government of Peru, faithful to its commitment to the United Nations linked to its republican tradition, joins with determination and firmness the global purpose to consolidate the global fight against climate change and to defend peace, democracy, unrestricted respect for human rights, international law.


  
     1281     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PHL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The spirit of our Organization calls on us to respond decisively to existential threats 
such as global warming, degrading ecosystems, diseases and food insecurity, and to reclaim the power of dialogue and diplomacy as we manage new complexities of conflict and strategic competition.
That phenomenon reminds us of three realities, namely, that climate change is evolving into a full crisis, that the fight against global warming and sea level rise is a race against time and that effective climate action requires stronger multilateral cooperation.
We need decisive, responsible, just and sustainable solutions that look after populations and protect those who have contributed the least to global warming but have the highest vulnerability by virtue of their geography.
That is the meaning of solidarity on climate action.
the Philippines pioneered the adoption of a resolution in the Human Rights Council that drew attention to the impact of climate change on human rights.
We join the call for industrialized countries to abide by their obligations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We look forward to the adoption of decisions by the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change concerning the establishment of a loss and damage fund and other climate financing mechanisms.
We thank Vanuatu and the core group of States for rallying the United Nations to bring the question of State obligations relating to climate change to the International Court of Justice.
Moreover, we stand in solidarity with island States taking part in the proceedings of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea on obligations relating to climate change and the marine environment under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Cognizant that the future will see more climate-induced migration and displacement, as acknowledged in the Global Compact for Migration, the Philippines and the International Organization for Migration convened a ministerial round table on climate change and migration in the Asia-Pacific region earlier this week in New York.
the Philippines aims to effectively build a bridge between disaster risk resilience and the climate agenda.
The Philippines has served as a pathfinder for consensus on such issues as climate change and human rights and on security cooperation.


  
     1282     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PLW_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a fellow islander, he is well acquainted with the challenges common to all small island developing States (SIDS), from economic resilience and climate change to financing and security.
We are vulnerable to climate change.
Climate change is the most significant challenge to our progress towards achieving sustainable development.
The island had diminished in size by two-thirds due to sea-level rise.
We urgently call on the Group of 20 (G-20) nations, responsible for 80 per cent of global carbon emissions, to uphold their commitments to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and to limit warming to 1.5°C.
That is crucial to mitigating such climate change impacts like disappearing islands and unhatched turtle eggs.
nations have a crucial role to play in emission reduction and leading the path towards sustainable development.
We call on the international community to work with SIDS to increase access to climate finance.
The twenty-sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow and the twenty-seventh Conference in Sharm-al-Sheik were successful, leading to green domestic policies in some of the world’s largest economies.
We know that disturbing the ocean bed could release stored carbon dioxide, directly setting back our efforts to combat climate change.
Taiwan has collaborated with Palau on vital issues such as tourism, agriculture, ocean conservation, climate, gender equality, education and innovation.
We urge the United Nations to allow Taiwan’s meaningful participation in crucial specialized agencies and processes like the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Our world is under siege from war and climate change, threats that undermine sustainable development and have driven many into poverty.


  
     1283     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PNG_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is compounded by the worsening climate crisis, the adverse socioeconomic and supply-chain-related impacts of the unacceptable war waged against Ukraine, the financial and economic burdens arising from the existing unfair and archaic international financial system and our own domestic challenges, which include economic growth, debt sustainability, meeting our people’s basic needs and providing social protection.
They will deliver for us on improving our people’s quality of life, enhancing the country’s prosperity, peace and security and promoting better environmental protection and climate change mitigation and adaptation, in addition to enabling Papua New Guinea to become an upper-middle-income country by 2030 and to improve by 2050 our global ranking on the Human Development Index.
We further call on the international financial institutions and development partners to use the final report and recommendations of the High-Level Panel on the Multidimensional Vulnerability Index as a tool to take adequate account in their decision-making of the key factors of vulnerability, such as the adverse effects of climate change and natural disasters, rather than relying on GDP or gross national income per capita as the sole measure of a country’s development.
We also strongly support the Bridgetown Initiative 2.0 as part of reforming the global financial system in order to improve the response to the climate crisis and specific development challenges, including access to affordable financing and debt relief.
The ongoing extreme and increasingly tragic weather and slow-onset events that have multiplied across the world — which the Secretary-General has aptly described as the era of global boiling — have emphasized the critical need for all of us to confront and address the climate crisis swiftly.
From our highland regions to the coastal lowlands and offshore areas in our island communities, the ravages of the climate crisis — as seen in natural disasters, droughts, sea level rise and food insecurity and their impact on our economy — have continued unabated, despite our negligible greenhouse-gas emissions.
We applaud the Secretary-General’s strong and dedicated leadership on climate change, including at the Climate Ambition Summit held earlier this week.
We also commend the United Arab Emirates and Egypt, the incoming and outgoing Chairs of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, on the ministerial meeting held on loss and damage, and we look forward to further engaging on that at COP 28.
Let me reiterate that Papua New Guinea’s position, like that of many of our fellow Pacific island countries, is that climate change is a key priority for us.
The critical importance and urgency of limiting global warming to 1.5°C through rapid, deep and sustained reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions cannot be overstated.
Vanuatu, on an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on climate change, and we look forward to its outcome.
and our evolving national plans, policies, legislation and partnerships on climate change underscore that strong commitment.
Again, that is reflected in our new fourth Medium-Term Development Plan and our strategic priority area 10 on climate change and the protection of the natural environment.
Papua New Guinea is indeed pleased to note that we have made much progress nationally on the climate-change front, which we take pride in.
At the Climate Ambition Summit.
Papua New Guinea announced its national commitments towards the 1.5°C global temperature goal and for climate justice.
In brief, those included our milestone achievement in June 2022 of our 2050 net-zero target; the completion and launching earlier this year of our 2022-2030 national adaptation plan on climate-resilient agriculture, infrastructure and transport and health-sector responsiveness to climate-sensitive diseases; and our political commitments to using our marine and terrestrial natural resources to address climate change, including for a just transition to renewable energy.
We therefore call once again call, first, on high- carbon-emitting States and developed economies to do much better.
Secondly, developed countries must urgently deliver on their climate-finance commitment of $100 billion per year and ensure that the distribution of those funds is equitable, accessible and timely.
Thirdly, we urge international financial institutions and development partners, including the Green Climate Fund, to ensure that countries like mine have timely access to climate finance for mitigation, adaptation and loss and damage in order to accomplish a just transition and ensure resilience to the effects of climate change.
Fourthly, we welcome international support for investments in the downstream processing of our natural resources, with a view to making the transformation we need in order to further support our enhanced climate ambition to achieve the global temperature goal and climate justice.
Papua New Guinea urges the international community to contribute to the Pacific Resilience Facility — a regional financing facility set up to address disasters and climate-change threats on our Blue Pacific continent — and thanks our development partners who have contributed to it.
on climate change and protection of the natural environment, underscores that point.
Not only does the ocean serve as a vital carbon sink, but it is also our main source of economic benefits, revenue generation and daily sustenance, providing food and income for our people and communities.
Papua New Guinea is increasingly concerned about the rise in sea levels related to climate change.
Papua New Guinea, together with our fellow members of the Pacific Islands Forum, is advancing efforts for another landmark Forum leaders’ declaration on statehood and the protection of people in the face of climate -change -related sea level rise.


  
     1284     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_POL_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

A key priority of our Economic and Social Council membership will be to draw the international community’s attention to the impact of global crises, such as armed conflicts, the energy crisis, the coronavirus disease pandemic and climate change, and their impact on socioeconomic development.


  
     1285     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PRK_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

This year, disaster-inducing abnormal climate events, such as El Nino, caused extremely high temperatures, droughts, destructive forest fires and heavy rains in many countries and regions around the world, resulting in enormous human and material losses.
Such events once again remind us that climate change is a pressing common task to which we should no longer remain indifferent.
The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has made dynamic efforts to cope with ever-worsening climate change and abnormal, disaster-prone weather conditions.


  
     1286     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PRT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

I support Our Common Agenda (A/75/982) and the reform proposals contained therein for global governance, including those of a financial nature, as well as the priorities that we have never abandoned on climate change, human rights, migrants, refugees and gender equality.
It is urgent to accelerate the fight against climate change, to achieve the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to protect our oceans and biodiversity.
There is no reform of international institutions without respect for the Charter and without achieving the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and our climate change goals.
Portugal defends the intensification of the fight against climate change, trying to move forward with decarbonization, the promotion of clean energy and the protection of our oceans and biodiversity.
Portugal has just signed an agreement with Cabo Verde — a country home to some of the world’s 300 million Portuguese speakers — to convert State debt into an environmental and climate fund, converting the debtor’s debt into a contribution by the creditor to that State’s sustainable economic development.
It is time to deliver on correcting global inequalities and on the fight against climate change.
and not more war than peace, more justice than injustice, more equality than inequality, more climate action than climate inaction, more reform of the United Nations than less reform and further reform of financial institutions than disregard for.


  
     1287     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_PRY_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change represents a great planetary challenge, and we must take both rigorous and fair measures to avoid further damage to the planet and its inhabitants.
While other countries are still arguing about reducing emissions, we have already taken concrete and effective measures.
at the same time, mitigate climate change.


  
     1288     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_QAT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Such issues, which concern all humankind, include climate change, environmental matters in general, poverty and the blatant injustice represented by occupation, racism and war crimes.


  
     1289     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ROU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The devastating effects of climate change, pollution, biodiversity loss, energy insecurity and disinformation are our global concerns.
We were also part of the core group promoting the General Assembly’s request for an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the obligations of States in respect of climate change.
We remain vocal in supporting climate education — a priority for Romania and for me personally.
I also strongly believe that the climate-security nexus should be featured more prominently on the United Nations agenda, including at the Security Council.
We hope that the Climate Ambition Summit and the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will mobilize the political will to keep the 1.5°C target alive.
We must accelerate a just energy transition and emissions reduction, while also ensuring energy security.


  
     1290     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_RUS_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

A vivid illustration of the “rules” that the West wants to make the whole world live by is the fate of the commitments it made back in 2009 to providing developing countries with $100 billion annually to finance climate-change adaptation programmes.


  
     1291     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_RWA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Rwanda also supports the second replenishment of the Green Climate Fund to create the fiscal space for vulnerable nations to tackle climate change.
That is an important outcome of the recent Africa Climate Summit, held in Nairobi under the leadership of President William Ruto.
However, we must not only cool down our climate, but we must also cool down our conflicts.


  
     1292     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SAU_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Conscious of the importance of addressing the challenges posed by climate change.
Saudi Arabia has a major interest in reducing emissions and developing adaptation measures.
In that regard, we support the calls for a gradual and responsible transition to low-emission clean-energy systems, using all available energy sources to ensure sustainability.
We have launched the Saudi Green Initiative and the Middle East Green Initiative aimed at leading the global efforts to protect our environment, reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and promote public health and quality of life.
We are working to increase the use of renewable energy and to reduce or even eliminate emissions and achieve sustainable development.
The Kingdom has announced that it will double its contribution to reducing emissions compared to 2015 — to the tune of 278 million tons per year by 2030 — in order to achieve carbon neutrality, as per the circular carbon economy approach.


  
     1293     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SDN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

It had a direct impact on widening the gap in social protection and countering climate change and the food crisis.


  
     1294     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SEN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global warming has reached unprecedented levels.
Among those challenges is the climate emergency.
Senegal remains committed to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
At the same time, we are continuing to build low- carbon and climate-resilient infrastructure, including two projects for mass transport systems: a regional express train and a rapid transit bus line, both electric.
With the execution of national and continental projects, such as the Great Green Wall, our countries are clearly committed to climate action, within their means.
The fact remains that, for the most part, green projects in Africa are financed by recourse to commercial debt, whereas they should be supported by the mobilization of the $100 billion per year agreed at the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2009 to finance the climate action.
Climate justice would require that a continent that contributes less than 4 per cent of emissions yet suffers the most should not be condemned to fall into debt to repair and prevent damage for which it is not responsible.


  
     1295     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SGP_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

There are looming food and water crises, and if we miss our climate change targets, we will heap even more misery upon ourselves and on future generations.
Global food insecurity has been aggravated by the war in Ukraine, as well as by climate change, which will add to inflationary pressures everywhere.
The Climate Ambition Summit, the three high-level meetings on health and the preparatory meeting for the Summit of the Future have helped us to recalibrate the multilateral system.
Whether we are addressing climate change, outer space or technology standards, it is important for all countries to balance their national interests with the collective long-term interests of our global community.


  
     1296     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SLB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

in this very Hall, we made a pledge to save our planet, eradicate poverty and address the climate crisis (see A/70/PV.4).
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is also a testament of that unified resolve.
We are also presented with a runaway climate crisis that threatens our very existence and questions our resolve.
Countless voices have echoed the same sentiment, namely, that climate change remains the single-greatest threat to our people and planet.
The ambition under the Paris Agreement remains low.
We need to keep the 1.5°C target alive and close the mitigation gap.
The global stocktake under the Paris Agreement is critical to keeping everyone honest and knowing where we are.
what we need to do and how to keep the 1.5°C goal alive.
Global trust needs to be restored to uphold the credibility of the Paris Agreement.
We must walk the talk by taking drastic climate action.
Solomon Islands welcomes the deliberations of the International Court of Justice on the Vanuatu initiative for climate change.
We must accelerate our transition to a low-carbon economy and further support the Port Vila initiative for a just transition from fossil fuels.
Developed countries must take the lead in financing the construction of climate-resilient safe islands in SIDS.
The increased warming and acidification of the ocean against the discharge of treated nuclear water over a period of 30-plus years poses worrisome risks for our people’s well-being and future.


  
     1297     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SLE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our world faces formidable challenges — widespread poverty, persistent hunger, the looming shadow of climate change and the unsettling presence of sustained and emerging conflicts.
With regard to climate change, our collective pursuit of sustainable development confronts the triple planetary crises of pollution, climate change and biodiversity loss.
Sierra Leone seeks equitable and timely access to climate financing.
We request unfettered access to leverage new climate change adaptation and mitigation technologies and shared knowledge.
Our salvation from the escalating climate change crisis lies in collective wisdom and concerted efforts.


  
     1298     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SMR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The crises of climate change, biodiversity loss, pollution, migration, forced displacement, the cost-of-living crisis and the water, food, financial and energy crises are threatening our planet and people and derailing progress in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We need to strengthen our commitment to implement existing agreements, such as the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity and international law treaties, and make the necessary reforms to the system.
Access to natural resources is one of them, while climate change is increasingly both an existential threat and a key driver of conflict.
The link between the climate emergency and security issues is self-evident, and it needs to be addressed within the Security Council in order to respond to the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable communities.
The effects of climate change are causing suffering to the most vulnerable communities, especially small island developing States, least developed countries and those affected by conflict.
Rising sea levels, poor precipitation and record temperatures exacerbate the risk of instability by reducing harvests, displacing communities and destroying infrastructure.
Climate policies and green transitions offer opportunities for reducing the devastating effects of climate change.
It is imperative to address the challenges posed by climate change through ambitious mitigation and adaptation, in addition to the implementation of the loss-and-damage agenda and an adequate climate finance agenda.


  
     1299     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SOM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change constitutes an existential challenge to all humankind.
It is extremely unjust that Somalia, the country that has contributed the least to global carbon 
emissions, has had to bear the brunt of the adverse impacts of climate change.
From this rostrum, we call on the international community to support us in addressing that urgent issue and bolstering our resilience in confronting climate change.


  
     1300     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SSD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

promote renewable energy and collaborate with international partners to reduce carbon emissions and protect our environment for generations to come.
While working on that, it is only fair for us to call upon developed countries to cut their emissions by 45 per cent and honour their pledges to make funds available for mitigation, adaptation and loss and damage to the developing countries.
With the recently concluded Africa Climate Summit, held in Nairobi, it is high time that the declaration adopted at the Summit form the new basis for rebuilding trust and regaining global solidarity for attaining the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     1301     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_STP_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

My country, a small island State that has enjoyed effective democracy for more than 30 years, and which is still developing, is one of the main victims of climate change, ecosystem degradation and economic dependence.
We should not hesitate to point the finger at those responsible for climate disruption within the Group of 20.
Our problems as poor countries tend to also become the problems of rich countries — demographic disparity, economic disparity, climate deregulation and the loss of institutional trust, among other things.
Mr. Antonio Guterres, for his tireless efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations in promoting peace, democracy and the protection of human life worldwide, as well as in the fight against poverty and climate change in all their forms.


  
     1302     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SUR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The multiple global and national crises, such as the debt burden, the domestic effects of climate change, the financial-economic downturn following the coronavirus disease pandemic and the impact of the war raging in Ukraine, have put tremendous pressure on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals on a major scale.
I want to reiterate that, for small developing countries with low-lying coastal areas, the fiscal pressure due to other crises beyond our doing 
is a real and daily problem.
Another climate conference, the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, is on our doorstep as we experience the reality of the increased intensity of the devastating global impact of climate change.
It is regrettable to admit that, despite some efforts, the world is still far from reaching the required decrease in emissions to prevent irreversible damage to our global environment and society.
Suriname is currently experiencing extraordinarily high temperatures, resulting in challenges with regard to the availability of drinking water.
Our inland areas are increasingly flooded by heavy rainfall, and our coastal areas are threatened by sea level rise.
As one of the only three carbon-negative countries in the world.
Suriname remains committed and continues to play its part in protecting the planet through national actions but also by engaging in strategic international public and private partnerships that will help to ensure that we remain carbon-negative now and in the future.
We need easier access to climate financing to implement mitigation and adaptation policies.
We must join the efforts that call for compensating highly forested countries for so- called removal credits, because so far those countries have been acting as carbon sinks for the whole world without any compensation.
Coupled with the coronavirus disease pandemic, the impact of climate change, the effects of the war in Eastern Europe and a high debt burden, the impact on our people has been even worse.
I want to assure the international community that my Government is committed to remaining a carbon-negative country with an enormous biodiversity pool and a low deforestation level.
We are doing that to finance our committed transition to an economy based primarily on renewable, non-carbon-based energy generation by 2060.
I would like to announce that we recently registered our carbon credits for the first time on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change registry.
I call on all heavy polluters to start that process as well and not to try to manage, tax or punish environmentally friendly production in developing countries, which are the least responsible for the climate crisis.


  
     1303     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SVK_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the General Assembly and other global forums we hear many words spoken about the challenges we face, from the growing intensity of armed conflicts to the devastating effects of climate change.
The Climate Ambition Summit starts today.
Our cities are becoming warmer, our oceans more acidic and our lands more arid.
That is a result of human-caused climate change.
The current pace of our reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions and our mitigation measures is not sufficient to prevent a 1.5°C rise in the global temperature by 2100.
Globally, our emissions still exceed the levels we agreed on in the Paris Agreement.
Global emissions must peak before 2030.
Feasible, effective and low-cost options for mitigation and adaptation are already available.
Eighty-five per cent of our electricity is already produced with zero emissions.
In the next seven years, we will use 5 per 
cent of our gross domestic product to decarbonize our economy and increase the use of renewables.
our emissions will be 55 per cent lower than in 1990.
Europe may be warming twice as fast as any other continent, but Africa, while responsible for less than 4 per cent of global emissions, is the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
Slovakia will continue to meet its obligations under the global climate finance commitments.
My final point about climate change is simple.
That is even more important today, when new technologies promise to unlock huge potential in areas such as public health, connectivity and addressing climate change.
We should listen to our children and work to achieve a vision of humankind where equality is the rule, not the exception, where development can be sustainable and climate-resilient and where we can live in peace.


  
     1304     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SVN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is a world that has not universally recognized the seriousness of the climate change unfolding before our eyes.
They are climate change.
With regard to climate change, it may sound like a cliche to say that we need to abandon the “business as usual” mentality.
Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time.
Global solidarity is a matter of climate justice.
Intergovernmental solidarity, with richer States contributing more than the poorer ones and with the richest private companies also contributing their fair share, must be guided by the understanding that climate change is a result of human activities, past and present.
I am therefore pleased to announce that Slovenia plans to increase its contribution to the Green Climate Fund by 50 per cent.
I am very concerned that the current geopolitical polarization is hindering collaborative climate action.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, simply keeping our promises would already be a step in the right direction.
We must integrate climate action, as well as the related question of water and food security, into conflict prevention and resolution and sustainable peace-building.
Slovenia continues to be actively involved in ensuring climate and environmental justice, including the right to a clean and healthy environment, and in securing equitable access to safe drinking water and sanitation for all.


  
     1305     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SWE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The pace of poverty reduction has slowed down, humanitarian needs are rising, and climate change is accelerating.
We support the adaptation of their business model to better address global challenges, while keeping poverty reduction and climate change at the core of their mandate.
Climate change is accelerating.
This July was the hottest month on record, with extreme weather causing widespread damage.
When the world meets for the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP) in Dubai in November, we must unite around higher ambitions.
Sweden welcomes the Secretary- General’s strong personal commitment to push the global climate agenda forward.
We are pleased that the incoming United Arab Emirates presidency is framing climate action as a driver for prosperity and growth.
We must mobilize more climate finance, both public 
and private, and enhance support to local resilience and climate adaptation.
Climate finance is a key element of Swedish development assistance.
The ground-breaking solutions provided by Swedish businesses in such areas as battery production and fossil-free steel are driving climate action in Sweden and supporting the climate transition globally.
They offer unprecedented possibilities, including to accelerate our efforts on climate change, global health and the Sustainable Development Goals.


  
     1306     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SWZ_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

In a world faced with complex challenges, such as climate change, poverty, inequality and resource depletion, it has become increasingly evident that sustainable development is not just a noble aspiration but an imperative for the survival and well-being of our planet and its inhabitants.
Among the multiple crises that we are experiencing are the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, geopolitical conflicts and wars and the climate change catastrophe.


  
     1307     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SYC_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we are to make progress on our development agenda, we can no longer call what we are facing climate change.
The point at which lives and livelihoods are lost with frightening frequency owing to environmental disasters means that we are living through a climate crisis.
Addressing the climate crisis is no longer optional.
As the Secretary-General said, the era of global warming has transitioned into an era of global boiling, and leaders must lead to limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5°C.
as major emitters, must take decisive action to lead in combating climate change.
Climate change knows no boundaries, poverty respects no borders and the quest for peace requires a collective effort.
Seychelles, as a nation uniquely positioned amid the vast Indian Ocean, knows first-hand the significance of global cooperation in addressing climate change, ocean conservation, sustainable development and maritime security.


  
     1308     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_SYR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

foremost of which is the outbreak of devastating conflicts in many regions around the world, the continued occupation of some peoples of the world, the spread of the scourge of terrorism, declining rates of development and a sharp rise in rates of poverty and hunger, in addition to the catastrophic impacts of unilateral coercive measures and economic blockade policies, as well as the negative repercussions of climate change and related natural disasters.


  
     1309     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TCD_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Armed conflict, terrorism, climate change, large-scale migration, underdevelopment, poverty and political, economic and financial crises are taking on unprecedented proportions.
among other things, a fall in the prices of raw materials on the world markets; repeated attacks by the Boko Haram sect; the health crisis due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic; climate change; and inter-communal conflicts in neighbouring countries with a direct impact on our population; and the political and military conflict.
Chad welcomes the organization of two summits on the sidelines of the General Assembly: one on climate change; the other on universal health coverage.
Chad, like other United Nations Member States, hopes that the dynamic initiated by the Secretary-General on the need for global action against climate change will enable the mobilization of the necessary resources for the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the resulting directives.


  
     1310     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TGO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Africa, is facing multisectoral vulnerability — vulnerability due to our weak revenue and low levels of development, vulnerability due to major health crises, vulnerability due to the effects of climate change and vulnerability due to the disruption of global food supply chains.
It is the practical expression of Togo’s determination to join the international effort to combat the harmful effects of climate change.
Accordingly, we welcome the commitments and announcements made at the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27).
in particular the establishment of a specific fund to finance loss and damage to vulnerable countries hit hard by climate-related disasters.
That is a major step towards the climate justice for which developing countries have been calling.
However, much remains to be done to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and the use of fossil fuels, among other things.
The Climate Ambition Summit, held here on 20 September, was an opportune moment to demonstrate the existence of genuine will to expedite the implementation of a just transition towards a world that is equitable and more resilient to climate change.
On the major transnational challenges of our century, such as climate change and the fight against international terrorism, our views may intersect with those of others, but they must remain our deeply considered views, decided in accordance with our own agendas.


  
     1311     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_THA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

That will reduce not only the impact on the environment, but also reduce vulnerability to climate change and enhance the well-being of farmers nationwide.
July was the hottest month ever recorded in human history.
That is in line with the Secretary-General’s statement that “the era of global warming has ended; the era of global boiling has arrived”.
The climate crisis is one of the most urgent threats that require our collective and immediate action.
Thailand welcomes the Climate Ambition Summit to accelerate climate action that will mitigate the destructive impacts of the ongoing climate crisis.
Together, we must devise the means to adapt and enhance climate resilience.
As the global climate change crisis continues to worsen, so too will the issue of food insecurity and malnutrition.
Thailand is suffering from the effects of global climate change and El Nino.
Thailand is implementing a green finance mechanism, including the issuance of sustainability linked bonds and the Thailand Green Taxonomy, to boost growth and investments in environmental and social projects, while contributing to the effort to address the challenges of climate change.
Thailand is determined to deliver on our pledge — 40 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions reduction by 2040.
carbon neutrality by 2050.
and net zero greenhouse-gas emissions by 2065 — by mainstreaming climate actions in all economic activities.
Our National Energy Plan has integrated our climate targets by enhancing energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy 
and making a modal shift of transport through domestic electric vehicle production.


  
     1312     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TJK_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, the disastrous impacts of climate change — extreme heat, floods, droughts, fires and other natural disasters, in addition to water shortages and famine — pose a serious threat to humanity.
We also welcome the call to reform the international financial architecture in order to ensure the mobilization of stable and long-term financing and investments, among other things, to achieve the SDGs and tackle climate issues.
As we can all observe, climate change impacts are increasing across the globe.
This year we witnessed the highest air temperature recorded in the period since observations began.
Asia is warming faster than the global average, according to the World Meteorological Organization’s most recent State of the Global Climate report.
Tajikistan is experiencing the impact of climate change first-hand and is considered one of the countries most vulnerable to the impact of climate change.
As a proactive country that champions the global water and climate agenda.
We consider the role of the Green Climate Fund to be positive and constructive in the process of addressing environmental challenges and adapting to climate change.


  
     1313     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TKM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Turkmenistan considers the addressing of urgent climate and ecological issues to be among the key areas of the work of the United Nations in the coming years.
Among those, we highlight the issues related to the Global Methane Pledge.
I must say that, with joining the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2017.
National events aimed at reducing and eliminating the negative effects of methane emissions into the atmosphere are being held.
At the same time, we welcome the efforts of the world community towards realizing the Global Methane Pledge.
Turkmenistan proposes the establishment of a specialized agency, the regional centre for technologies related to climate change in Central Asia, which will substantively and systematically work on the topic of climate.


  
     1314     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TLS_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Global crises such as pandemics, climate change, the war on Ukraine and the resulting geopolitical fragmentation have disproportionately impacted already fragile and conflict-affected countries.
The incidence of extreme hunger, poverty and humanitarian crises caused by wars, climate change and geoeconomic fragmentation is increasingly concentrated in fragile and conflict-affected countries.
People living in fragile circumstances are already feeling the effects of climate change most severely.
We need a new outlook on the climate and security nexus that will address the impacts of climate change and environmental degradation on peace and security and ensure that the quest for energy transition does not exacerbate the security situation in vulnerable and fragile countries.
The combined efforts of unlocking finance through debt alleviation, streamlining international finance at the lowest interest rates, and significantly increasing official development assistance will empower those nations to embark on projects that foster the development of clean industries, address the ongoing loss and damage related to climate change, and facilitate their efforts in greenhouse gas mitigation and adaptation to climate change.
Thirdly, as the urgent need to transition to a low- carbon economy and clean energy accelerates, the initiative would seek to ensure that the quest for rare earth elements and critical minerals does not lead to further instability, promote weak governance or exacerbate local tensions or grievances in the countries where the strategic reserves of such elements and minerals are found.
LDCs and vulnerable nations, we aim to mitigate climate change impacts and preserve our shared global environment for generations to come.


  
     1315     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TON_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change threats have reached an existential level.
The heightened frequency and severity of cyclones, rising sea levels caused by melting polar ice.
Gender, poverty, hunger and climate targets make up 30 per cent of the targets that have either stalled or reversed.
It is particularly relevant because SIDS are acutely vulnerable to the multifaceted and urgent challenges posed by climate change.
climate change becomes more of an existential menace to Tonga and the Pacific.
Tonga has been making genuine efforts to combat the effects of climate change on our means of subsistence for a very long time.
Our goals include decreasing the electricity sector’s reliance on fossil fuels by 70 per cent by 2025.
The Sixth Assessment Report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change underscores that the 1.5 C goal is achievable if emissions peak by 2025 and are halved by 2030.
We urge all Member States to do their utmost to keep emissions below 1.5 C and strongly encourage the completion of the first global stocktaking.
The decision on the loss and damage fund announced at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27) was a historic one.
Owing to the magnitude and urgency of this issue in our region, we wholeheartedly back the formation of a Pacific fund offering direct assistance to Pacific small island States in their efforts to tackle the effects of climate change.
Indeed, my country is determined to take a lead on the issue, having been appointed a champion of climate financing for the Pacific.
I can only say it again — for decades now the Pacific leaders have been calling on the international community to take urgent climate action.
The climate financing commitments made by developed countries fall significantly short of the promised $100 billion per year, starting in 2020.
That brings me to climate justice.
Tonga was encouraged by the General Assembly’s historic adoption by consensus of resolution 77/276. led by Vanuatu and a core group of countries, requesting an advisory 
opinion from the International Court of Justice on the obligations of States regarding climate change.
It marks an important milestone in our decades-long struggle for climate justice.
Again, as my colleagues from the Pacific have already reiterated, our countries need to see more progress, as we remain at the forefront of the battle against climate-related hazards.
We reaffirm that strengthening multi-hazard early- warning systems is highly relevant in implementing the Sendai Framework.
Marine biodiversity is being disturbed due to overexploitation and ocean acidification.
In support of the Pacific Islands Forum Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the Face of Climate Change-related Sea Level Rise.
We are doing it to promote the stability, security, certainty and predictability of maritime entitlements, irrespective of the impacts of climate -change -related sea level rise.
New technologies ought to help address threats facing the ocean, build resilient oceans and coastal communities and mitigate the impacts of climate change.
We want to mobilize Partnerships for the Goals in the lead-up to the 2023 twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 28).
I should like to add that we hope to welcome everyone to our region for COP 31.


  
     1316     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TTO_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Secretary-General recently sounded the alarm, saying that the period of global warming had ended and one of global boiling had arrived.
The descendants of those people populate the Caribbean islands, where they struggle manfully against the residual rigours of those historic crimes, even as they are visited by the worst effects of climate change and a constant threat of exclusion from the world’s mainstream financial systems.
It is undeniable that climate change is an existential threat to all of us and does not recognize geographic boundaries.
We also acknowledge that our people, the people of the small island developing States, those who are least culpable for the climate crisis, are the ones who continue to be most disproportionately affected.
The experts have told us that this past July was the hottest month on record and that global ocean temperatures also reached record levels.
Most disconcertingly, we have noted with justifiable alarm the recent dire warning from scientists that without ambitious climate action, we will exceed the critical 1.5°C temperature threshold.
However, recent developments have shown that overly ambitious net-zero targets should not be forced on small island nations.
A global stocktaking at the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will be crucial, and it must produce a road map that brings the world closer to being on track by ensuring that nationally determined contributions are aligned with the 1.5°C goal.
We urge developed countries to increase their support for the second replenishment of the Green Climate Fund.


  
     1317     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TUN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must also mention the unprecedented increase in the number of refugees and migrants, the continuing impact of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and the acute climate crisis.
The challenges facing the world today — the impact of climate change, deterioration of the ecosystem and worsening of national disasters — compel all of us to take urgent action as an absolute priority despite, the fact that our countries are not responsible for the current situation of our planet.
Tunisia appreciates the initiative of the Secretary-General, who called for the convening of the Climate Ambition Summit.
All responsible actors should assume their responsibility by providing climate funding to countries that are most affected.
That can be attributed to prolonged conflicts, the effects of climate change and the fact that criminal 
networks are exploiting the precarious conditions of thousands of people who are seeking better opportunities in life and are trafficking them, whether in countries south or north of the Mediterranean Sea or sub-Saharan Africa.
We also intend to strengthen our resilience in the face of challenges, including regional and global challenges, lack of funding, the effects of climate change and the consequences of COVID-19 pandemic.


  
     1318     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TUR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

climate change and related natural disasters have become a reality of our daily lives.
Global climate change is another issue I would like to touch upon.
It is becoming increasingly difficult to limit global temperature rise due to climate change to 1.5°C.
Food security is one of the main areas affected by climate change.
We hope that our zero waste targets will contribute to combating climate change and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.


  
     1319     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TUV_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The greatest challenge to the sustainable development that we are striving to achieve for our people is the fundamental threat of climate change and rising sea levels.
As a low-lying island State.
Tuvalu is particularly vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change, such as extreme weather events, which affect our ability to achieve our SDG targets.
We commend the Secretary-General for convening the Climate Ambition Summit, a pivotal moment for global climate action.
In hindsight, climate justice should be at the forefront of our efforts as we address the urgent need for mitigation, adaptation and support for the most vulnerable nations.
We embrace the efforts and collective support for resolution 77/276. championed by Vanuatu, for an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice aimed at reinforcing States’ responsibility under international law to safeguard the climate system.
It is the hope of Tuvalu that international law will provide the moral punch to enable us to phase out fossil fuels and hold polluters responsible.
specifically in terms of protecting and preserving the marine environment in relation to the impacts of climate change, including ocean warming, sea level rise and ocean acidification.
It is crucial for us to come together in pursuit of climate justice, as the urgency of the matter cannot be overstated.
Tuvalu will equip itself with the tools to implement innovative solutions that address climate and environmental concerns.
In serving as our flagship survival adaptation project, the Long-Term Adaptation Plan is aimed at addressing the imminent threat of rising sea levels by reclaiming and elevating our land territory.
Tuvalu cannot afford to take a back seat and be a spectator while others manoeuvre to satisfy their own interests in our multilateral process for addressing climate change, particularly sea level rise.
On the heels of our successful Rising National Initiative, which we launched this time last year, we have proposed establishing a coalition for addressing sea level rise and its existential threats.
The initiative is aimed at bringing together like-minded States and stakeholders to collectively address the pressing issue of protecting statehood, sovereignty, territorial integrity and livelihoods in the face of rising sea levels.
Tuvalu believes that the coalition has a unique role in highlighting and addressing the impact of climate change and sea level rise on vulnerable nations.
Tuvalu calls for stronger global action on phasing out fossil fuel production and consumption.
At the Climate Ambition Summit on Wednesday this week.
alongside Vanuatu and other Pacific nations, to negotiate a fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty, a new instrument that would reduce reliance on fossil fuels, promote sustainable development through accelerating the just transition to renewable energy sources and curb greenhouse gas emissions.


  
     1320     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_TZA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

All this is happening at a time when the world is reeling from the aftershocks of the coronavirus disease pandemic, the relentless wrath of climate change, horrendous armed conflicts, global food insecurity, the looming energy and debt crisis, persistent poverty and growing inequality.
Climate change has become the world’s greatest threat.
Recent natural calamities that have devastated areas of a number of countries around the world have amplified the horrible effects of climate change.
Beyond that, the recently released sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change sounded the alarm about the reality that the world is not on track to succeed in remaining below the 1.5°C limit on the overall temperature increase agreed in Paris.
Disturbingly, the report also indicates that Africa is warming at an accelerated pace that is outstripping the global rate.
As a result, climate change has continued to adversely affect Africa and hamper its progress, and will continue to do so.
Tanzania therefore reiterates its call for urgent and concerted action on the part of all nations to cut greenhouse-gas emissions and strengthen mitigation and adaptation measures.
Together we must create an enabling environment and facilitate the investments needed to unlock the resources for scaling up the implementation of our climate commitments and the decarbonization of the global economy.
Let us act together to address the climate crisis and hasten the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


  
     1321     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_UGA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change continues to undermine the ability of all nations to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Globally, we continue to witness climate and weather extremes, which are causing considerable loss of life and property.
We remain concerned that countries that have contributed less to the global emission of greenhouse gases continue to be disproportionately affected by the impacts of climate change.
To address the adverse impacts of climate change.
Uganda continues to take bold climate adaptation and mitigation measures in line with our ambitious updated nationally determined contributions, including by increasing access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern forms of energy to enhance production and value addition; increasing forest and wetland cover; and championing the operationalization of climate-smart agriculture.
However, we note that the lack of sufficient means of implementation continues to undermine our efforts to adequately address the impacts of climate change.
We therefore reiterate our call on developed country parties to fulfil their commitment, in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to provide $100 billion annually to developing country parties through 2025 to assist them with mitigation and adaptation.


  
     1322     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_UKR_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

people have not yet learned to use climate as a weapon.
While humankind fails in the objectives of its climate policy, it means that extreme weather will still have an impact on normal global life, and some evil State will also weaponize its outcomes.
When people in the streets of New York and other cities of the world went out on climate protests, we all saw them.


  
     1323     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_URY_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Uruguay issued a sustainable bond based on rewards and punishments that depend on compliance with parameters established in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.


  
     1324     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_USA_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

For example, we have taken significant steps to reform and scale up the World Bank, expanding its financing to low- and middle-income countries so it can help to boost progress towards meeting the Sustainable Development Goals and better address interconnected challenges such as climate change and fragility.
Nowhere is that more critical than the accelerating climate crisis.
Together, those snapshots tell an urgent story of what awaits us if we fail to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and do not begin to climate-proof the world.
Last year I signed into law in the United States the largest investment ever and anywhere in the history of the world — to combat the climate crisis and help move the global economy towards a clean energy future.
We are also working with the Congress to quadruple our climate financing in order to help developing countries reach their climate goals and adapt to climate impacts.
And this year, the world is on track to meet the climate finance pledge made, collectively, under the Paris Agreement — to raise $100 billion.
But we need more investment from the public and private sector alike, especially in places that have contributed so little to global emissions, but face some of the worst effects of climate change, like the Pacific Islands.
The United States is working directly with the Pacific Island Forum to help those nations adapt and build resilience to the climate impact, even as we lead the effort to build innovative new partnerships that attack the global challenges from all sides.
Those range from the First Movers Coalition, which is mobilizing billions of dollars in private sector commitments to create a market demand for green products in carbon-intense sectors like concrete, shipping, aviation and trucking; to the Agricultural Innovation Mission for Climate, which is bringing farmers into the climate solution and making our food supply more resilient to climate shocks; to the Global Methane Pledge, now endorsed by more than 150 countries, which expands our focus beyond our carbon emission targets to reduce the potential greenhouse gases in our atmosphere by 30 per cent in this decade.


  
     1325     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_UZB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Even in areas that concern the fate of humankind as a whole, such as climate change, hunger and inequality, we can feel that mutual communication has been lost.
The triple planetary crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and environmental contamination are worsening.
our region is becoming one of the parts of the world most vulnerable to climate change.
Over the past 30 years, the air temperature in our region has increased by 1.5°C — more than twice the global average.
That partnership completely dovetails with our interests and is aimed at preventing threats related to climate change.
I believe that the implementation of the outcomes of the High-Level Dialogue on Climate Change and Resilience in Central Asia will be extremely useful.
We have put forward an initiative on adopting a draft resolution entitled “Central Asia facing global climate threats: solidarity for common prosperity”, and we propose to discuss its substance at an international climate forum to be held in Samarkand next year.
I would like to emphasize that adapting the main sectors of Uzbekistan’s economy to climate change, achieving carbon neutrality and drastically increasing green energy’s share in our energy mix remains a strategic task for us.


  
     1326     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_VAT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

In recent decades, the Organization has witnessed an increase in activities on various fronts, including laudable initiatives aimed at reducing poverty, helping migrants, combating climate change, promoting nuclear disarmament and offering humanitarian aid.
New technologies should be used to mitigate the planetary crisis of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss, and it is urgent that we act now to safeguard the world we live in.
The international community needs to focus on a positive outcome at the forthcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the United Arab Emirates, without reducing the discussions on climate change to financing issues.


  
     1327     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_VCT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

Similarly, it is widely recognized that the climate-change agenda is stalling and in some respects reversing, with dire consequences for humankind, particularly the most vulnerable countries.
The expansive and expanding list includes racism and xenophobia; the continuing oppression of women under a patriarchy in too many countries; the seemingly uncontrollable chariots of artificial intelligence; threats of pandemics and the anti-people consortiums of Big Pharma; poverty and food insecurity; ignorance, miseducation and disinformation; terrorism and its associated malcontents; illegal trafficking in persons and narcotics; the subversion of participatory democracy and human rights; the failure or refusal of former colonial Powers to entertain just and legitimate demands for reparations to remedy the contemporary legacies of underdevelopment caused by native genocide and the enslavement of African bodies; and the failure or refusal of the major emitters of greenhouse gases to cough up the resources that the vulnerable countries affected need for adaptation, mitigation, loss and damage.
On the bundle of issues related to climate change, including global warming, biodiversity challenges, land degradation and desertification, we see a veritable Tower of Babel.
The lack or inadequacy of meaningful corrective action by the irresponsible climate polluters, both countries and companies, is an unpardonable, egregious wrong and indeed a species of barbarism.
The upcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the United Arab Emirates is a critical test of humankind’s commitment to saving our planet from the ravages of human-made climate change.
In that composite package of policies and measures, special consideration has to be accorded to the most vulnerable countries, such as small island developing States in the Caribbean and the Pacific and the poorer communities in climate-distressed areas of Africa.
Criss-crossing the issue of financing for development in the era of climate change, and the ramifications of the downside of structural distortions in the global economy for poor and vulnerable middle-income countries, is the Bridgetown Initiative 2.0. which has already been endorsed by the Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
Poor, vulnerable, climate-distressed and resource-challenged developing countries are absolutely fed up and insulted by the unfulfilled perennial promises of the developed world on climate financing.
But the critical issue of ensuring sufficient financing for development, including climate financing and reparations, remains the proverbial elephant in the room and must be effectively harnessed if we are to serve the deserving.


  
     1328     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_VEN_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

That is about a new and alarming arms race that diverts resources that would be of greater benefit to humankind if they were used not only in financing development agendas or fighting poverty, but also in addressing the food crisis and the climate crisis that currently threatens our world.
We are facing an existential climate catastrophe for millions of people, especially our brothers and sisters from small island developing States, in both the Caribbean and the Pacific.
The effects of years of climate injustice, marked by unsustainable patterns of consumption and production, have accelerated in recent years.
Libya has been one of the most recent victims of the impacts of climate change, also affecting our country, which has experienced floods and record temperatures in recent months.
In renewing our firm commitment to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, we stress the need to ensure adequate funding for the loss and damage fund, always bearing in mind the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and equity.
let us not change the climate; let us change the system.


  
     1329     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_VNM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

At the same time, non-traditional security challenges, natural disasters, climate change, environmental issues, food, energy, water and cybersecurity are evolving in a complex and unpredictable manner.
Fourthly, there is a crisis of resources to respond to global issues, such as poverty eradication, education, health, humanitarian assistance, diseases, natural disasters and climate change.
Developing countries, particularly least developed countries, are currently the most vulnerable to the severe consequences of climate change, natural disasters and diseases.
We are also expediting energy transition to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.


  
     1330     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_VUT_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are failing to address the triple planetary crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
We have seen the recent successful international legally binding instrument agreed on under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation and sustainable use of the marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction, a breakthrough in establishing a loss and damage fund at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the adoption of resolution 77/276. initiated by Vanuatu through the Pacific Islands Forum for an International Court of Justice advisory opinion on climate change.
in some cases, reversed by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), climate change and rising inflation, threatening the success of the 2030 Agenda.
As we renew efforts to double down on our commitments to the 2030 Agenda, we must acknowledge that climate change is the defining existential challenge of our time and has proven to set back decades of development progress.
While our countries are the smallest contributors to global climate change, we find ourselves on the front lines of the crisis.
Leading into the twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we once again emphasize the absolute imperative of limiting global warning to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
Global efforts in that regard remain woefully inadequate, as reflected in the recent Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
The report confirms that we are dangerously close to overshooting the 1.5°C limitation goal.
Given the existential threat imposed by climate change.
Vanuatu, together with a core group of 18 countries, submitted to the General Assembly a draft resolution seeking an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on climate change, which was adopted by consensus on 29 March (resolution 77/276).
While Vanuatu acknowledges the critical role of the Paris Agreement to affect climate change.
Vanuatu believes that the Agreement does not go far enough to address the current increase in fossil fuel production.
Vanuatu hosted, the fifth Pacific Regional Energy and Transport Ministers’ Meeting, which culminated in the Port Vila call to action, which is aimed at a just and equitable transition towards a fossil fuel-free Pacific.
Together with Tuvalu, we are leading a call for the establishment of a global alliance to negotiate a non-proliferation treaty to facilitate ending fossil fuel expansion, an equitable phaseout of fossil fuels and a global just transition to renewable energy.
Reliable data has indicated that the Pacific small island developing States have received only 0.22 per cent of the global climate funds.
That is quite remarkable, given that we face the gravest threat from the impacts of climate change.
There remains a significant gap in the provision of sufficient predictable financing for implementing climate change adaptation and mitigation.
With the support of development partners, we are doing our part to start the construction of climate-resilient infrastructure and projects promoting sustainable resource management to assist mitigation and adaptation work.
I wish to reiterate that climate finance must be separate and scale up and be in addition to development finance.
The promised $100 billion in climate financing must also be fully delivered, providing climate vulnerable countries, such as Vanuatu, much-needed funds for adaptation and mitigation.
As we approach the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals and the global stocktake of the Paris Agreement, the progress recorded so far is very worrisome We therefore cannot overemphasize the urgency of accelerating the implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 as an integral part of the 2030 Agenda.
Vanuatu has undertaken the following measures, among other measures, to strengthen disaster risk management in the context of the climate change discourse: first, the new Disaster Risk Management Act.
a tool that is built around preparing for and responding to disasters at the national, provincial and local levels, and secondly, a national land subdivision policy that takes a more comprehensive approach to risk reduction and climate adaptation for land development across Vanuatu.
We face an enormous financing gap in solving the climate emergency while ensuring poverty reduction and sustainable development.
It has also made it more difficult to address pressing challenges such as climate change, disaster risk reduction and social protection and economic diversification.


  
     1331     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_WSM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

While many global challenges remain, it is our hope that in a spirit of global solidarity and unity we can address with urgency the threats of the climate crisis, the accelerated loss of biodiversity, the erosion of human rights and human health, worsening conflicts, the abuse of information and new technologies and the task of finding the political will to strengthen our collective effort to achieve sustainable development.
The effects of climate change are etching a deepening and more devastating impact on our lives.
The first half of 2023 was characterized by record temperatures in many regions of the world: intense water temperatures in various ocean basins; droughts in parts of Africa.
June of 2023 is remembered for the warmest ever recorded global average temperatures, up by more than 1.2°C compared to pre-industrial levels.
Efforts to reduce global emissions such as investing in clean and affordable energy, moving towards green resilient economies, tackling deforestation, reducing the reliance on fossil fuels and protecting nature must be everyone’s priority for the sake of humankind.
Targeted solutions must be complemented by ensuring climate finance for front-line countries and utilizing the best available science and technology.
Our expectations for the upcoming twenty-eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the United Arab Emirates include crystallized commitments to bring about our envisioned reality.
For all members of the Alliance of Small Island States, maintaining global temperatures below 1.5°C is a point of no return.
We view the climate crisis as an intersecting one.
More than 1 billion people rely on forests for their livelihoods, and land and the ocean absorb more than half of all carbon emissions.
The climate problem is worsening as the world’s natural carbon sinks, such as our oceans and rainforests, cease to spawn life.
A healthy ocean will help in our fight against climate change.
We know that natural disasters will increase in frequency and severity for as long as climate change remains unaddressed.
An expanded definition of security for the region reflects our desire to nuance our priorities and the demand for climate-resilient and environmentally-conscious infrastructure, rather than simply viewing issues through the lens of strategic competition.


  
     1332     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_YEM_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

This session of the General Assembly is being held under new and extremely complex geopolitical, economic and climatic conditions and challenges, which requires us all to find innovative solutions, change our traditional way of addressing those challenges and.
We reiterate our appreciation and thanks to all our brothers who have supported those two countries, especially the sisterly Arab Republic of Egypt, as the dangers of climate change are increasingly threatening our global system.


  
     1333     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ZAF_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is a great concern to us from the global South that those wealthier countries in the global North have failed to meet the undertakings that they made to provide $100 billion a year for developing economies to take climate action.
Africa is warming faster than the rest of the world.
We are told that, of the 20 climate hotspots in the world, we find 17 in Africa.
Africa is the least responsible for the climate damage that has been caused; yet it bears the greatest burden.
We urge global leaders to accelerate global decarbonization, while pursuing equality and shared prosperity.
We need to advance all three pillars of the Paris Agreement — mitigation, adaptation and support — with equal ambition and urgency.
African countries, alongside other countries with developing economies, need increased financial support both to implement the 2030 Agenda and to achieve their climate change goals in a comprehensive and integrated manner.
We need to operationalize the loss and damage fund for vulnerable countries hit hard by climate disasters, as agreed at the twenty-seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.


  
     1334     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ZMB_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

global economic uncertainty, climate change and food insecurity.
We must direct our efforts towards addressing inequalities and realizing a just transition and fostering greater climate action for present and future generations.
With regard to climate finance, we wish to emphasize the need for an effective implementation mechanism for the Loss and Damage Fund, agreed upon at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
In the same manner, we reiterate the need to honour the annual $100-billion pledge for climate finance, with greater emphasis on adaptation.
That will be very crucial if we are to uphold the credibility of global efforts that are aimed at addressing climate injustices and protecting our planet from further degradation.


  
     1335     
   
FILE: UNGA78_2023_ZWE_78_2023_CLIMATE.txt
  

The impact of conflicts, terrorism, climate change-induced natural disasters, biodiversity loss and the rising prevalence of disease and pandemics, especially in the developing world, deserves our urgent attention.
Zimbabwe has not been spared the negative impact of climate change.
My Government therefore continues to make the requisite investment in infrastructure to mitigate and build resilience towards climate change adaptation.
Building resilience and tackling the adverse impact of climate change should be an urgent priority for us all.
May I express my deepest condolences and sympathies to the Governments and the peoples of the Kingdom of Morocco and the State of Libya on the recent loss of lives as a result of the devastating impact of climate change.
There is need for concrete climate action, as opposed to mere promises, so that we can strengthen our adaption, resilience and mitigation mechanisms.
We must transition to a low-carbon and resilient global economy by increasing investments in renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and green infrastructure.
Commitments made under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change must be honoured to deliver climate justice.
Zimbabwe is implementing a climate change policy and response strategy while disaster management and early warning systems continue to be strengthened.


  
     1336     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_AGO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Angola is developing a series of initiatives that are part of the effort to ensure the implementation of the international climate agenda, highlighting measures aimed at mitigating and adapting to climate change, always taking care to exploit our fossil resources responsibly in order to guarantee the development and well-being of our populations.


  
     1337     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_AND_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would also like to especially thank Secretary-General António Guterres for his perseverance, his consistent preference for conciliation, and his strong message in support of international law and the fight against climate change.
The feeling that a not-so-distant past was better than the present haunts today’s generations and is fuelled by fears that climate change will worsen living conditions, that globalisation and migration dilute and depersonalise our societies, and that today’s children and youth will live worse lives than their parents.
For this reason, we have supported, from its inception, the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, and more recently, the study on the **impact of climate change on children in armed conflict**.
And however small my country may appear to the great powers, this does not prevent us from pursuing ambitious and essential goals—**multilateralism, climate urgency, gender equality, digital transition, and cultural diversity**.
---

**Ladies and Gentlemen,**

Climate change is undeniably a global threat, but it impacts certain territories more severely.
This is the case for coastal regions—due to rising sea levels—and mountain regions, whose ecosystems are more vulnerable.
Climate change threatens to alter our way of life and even our national economy.
That is why we have made the fight against climate change one of our primary objectives—both internationally and domestically.
Since ratifying the **UN Framework Convention on Climate Change** in 2011, Andorra has met its communication obligations, adhering to the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness, and accuracy—and even anticipating the Convention’s requirements.
In 2015, Andorra was one of the first Parties to the Convention to submit its **Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC)** and subsequently updated it in 2020 and 2022 to raise its medium-term ambitions and reach **climate neutrality by 2050**.
In 2023, Andorra became the first state to submit the **Biennial Transparency Report (BTR)**, again demonstrating our commitment to climate action.
**

Because **the fight against climate change is the most urgent, wide-ranging global challenge**, requiring the highest levels of cooperation, collaboration, generosity, and mutual respect.


  
     1338     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ARE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Furthermore, collective action is the only way to address the challenges posing threats to the future of humanity and our planet, including climate change.
The outcomes of the 28th session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference hosted by the UAE demonstrated what we can achieve when we work together.
The historic “UAE Consensus” adopted by 198 countries, embodies a global consensus on developing measures to prevent global warming above 1.5 degrees Celsius, and operationalize the “Loss and Damage” Fund to compensate the countries most affected by climate change.
We will continue to cooperate with everyone to support climate action and clean and renewable energy solutions, including through the “Troika of the Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties” initiative with Azerbaijan and Brazil, to provide a concrete response that contributes to the achievement of the objectives of international climate agreements.


  
     1339     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ATG_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Never before has humanity been confronted with such stark choices: to end wars or condemn humanity to endless suffering; to eliminate poverty or watch millions starve; to act on climate change or doom future generations to a scorched planet.
Our islands are on the frontlines of a climate catastrophe we did not cause; a debt crisis we did not create, and conflicts in which we have no part.
SIDS have learned to fight for our survival against the rising seas and violent storms.
Mr. President, 
Climate change is not an abstract, or academic threat.
The climate crisis is not on the horizon.
Fossil fuel companies have become the architects of our demise, while generating ostentatious profits for their owners.
We need a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty, to halt the reckless destruction of our environment, to end fossil fuel subsidies and to chart a course toward a sustainable future, with a negotiated and graduated transition.
Let COP29 be the moment we draw a line in the sand.
While we recognize that fossil fuels still play a role in the energy security of many countries, and we do not expect their production to cease overnight; we should not support companies extracting oil and gas to continue generating extravagant profits at the expense of our planet.
It’s climate justice.
It is a moral and legal responsibility in which the polluter pays.
While we face the climate emergency, we are also drowning in a sea of plastic pollution, that is choking our oceans and devastating our biodiversity.
Distinguished Delegates, 
Antigua and Barbuda, in concert with other Small Island Developing States, has played a leading role in the pursuit of climate justice.
At COP26 in 2021, together with Tuvalu, we established the Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law.
In 2022, the Commission sought the first-ever advisory opinion from the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, on the obligations of states to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.
Yet, despite our efforts, the COP process continues to fail us.
Instead of limiting global warming to 1.5°C - an essential threshold for survival - the world is hurtling towards a disastrous 2.8°C rise.
We cannot achieve climate justice without addressing the structural inequities in the International Financial Architecture.
The SIDS Debt Sustainability Support Service is a critical mechanism that can provide tailored solutions, utilizing debt for climate swaps, debt relief, repurposing of SDRs and carbon pricing funding to help us escape the cycle of unsustainable debt.
Mr. President, 
The world is crumbling under the weight of crises - poverty, wars, pandemic and the climate devastation.


  
     1340     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_AUS_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Pressing challenges like climate change, technology, poverty, reform of financial architecture - and increasingly necessary peacebuilding work.
Take Vanuatu’s landmark International Court of Justice initiative on climate change.
Climate change is causing more disasters, reversing years of development gains overnight.
Australia is acting at home, enshrining our ambitious emissions reduction targets into legislation: 43 per cent by 2030 and net zero by 2050.
By the end of 2025, Australia will offer Climate Resilient Debt Clauses in our sovereign loans.
It is the first time two nations have recognised, in a legally binding treaty, continuing statehood and sovereignty, notwithstanding the impacts of sea-level rise.
This is why we are bidding to host COP31 in partnership with the Pacific.
We want to show the world the unique climate challenges facing our region and amplify the voices of Small Island Developing States, the custodians of our world’s oceans.
President, we know that along with climate change, technology will define the multilateral system and development goals for decades to come.
To deploy the collective agency that this forum provides, so we combat climate change, poverty and coercion…


  
     1341     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_AUT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Amidst all this, humanity itself is facing fundamental questions with accelerating climate change, environmental disasters and the rise of artificial intelligence.


  
     1342     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_AZE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The worsening global climate crisis, rising inequalities, emerging divides, and heightened
tensions affect us all, irrespective of background or location.
Ladies and Gentlemen,

The global climate crisis threatens decades of progress, imperils humanity's future, and
disproportionally affects vulnerable countries.
Growing divisions in international relations shouldn’t
distract us from the imperative to address climate change, the greatest transnational challenge of the

century.
What has been done so far remains insufficient to limit global temperature rise to 1.5C. For the sake
of the future, the time has come for urgent, concerted, and sustained efforts to give effect to our
commitments to a global vision for sustainable development.
h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations

November 2024, Azerbaijan will host the agt
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Guided by the call In Solidarity for a Green World,
Azerbaijan will spare no effort to bridge developed and developing countries and foster a collaborative

spirit to tackle climate challenges as a common commitment and moral duty.
The confidence placed in us by the international community to host and preside over COP29 this year
is a testament and recognition to Azerbaijan's readiness to lead the climate agenda and contribute to
global climate action.
As the Incoming Presidency, Azerbaijan reaffirms its commitment to delivering

COP29 in a transparent, impartial, inclusive, and party-driven manner.
We have presented our vision based on two parallel pillars to enhance ambition and enable action,
with climate finance as our top priority this year.
The primary expectation for the COP29 Presidency is an agreement on a fair and ambitious New

Collective Quantified Goal (NCQG) on climate finance.
This will be the first major climate finance goal after adopting the Paris Agreement, and we have been

working tirelessly to support the Parties in landing a deal.
The COP29 Presidency made it clear that agreeing on a fair and ambitious NCQG that is adequate to
the urgency and scale of the problem and takes into account the needs and priorities of developing
countries is the ultimate test of the Parties' commitment to the Paris Agreement and climate action

in the years ahead.
We need to continue to work constructively on the NCQG and steer the process to a successful

outcome at COP29.
COP 29 Presidency also works with the Parties to deliver an outcome on carbon markets this year.
Fully functioning carbon markets will be a significant step in implementing nationally determined

contributions (NDCs) cost-effectively and bolstering ambition in mitigation.
Moreover, we have put forward 14 initiatives covering topics such as the link between climate action
and sustainable development goals, green energy zones and corridors, energy storage, harmony for
climate resilience, agriculture, clean hydrogen, methane reduction from organic waste, green digital
action, and more.
One of the initiatives under COP29 Action Agenda includes the establishment of the
Climate Finance Action Fund, an innovative source for climate finance to be voluntarily supported by

fossil fuel-producing countries and companies.
COP29 will also be an opportunity to set differences aside and contribute to global peace and the
climate agenda.
Given the intersection of conflicts and the increasingly challenging climate crisis,
Azerbaijan introduced a flagship COP29 Truce Initiative embedded in the Joint Solemn Appeal

announced a few days ago.
In line with this, Azerbaijan is looking into ways of further Greenhouse Gas
Emission reductions and working on its 1.5C aligned NDC.
A few months ago, we have joined the 2030

Global Methane Pledge.
We will also establish green energy zones and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 in the Garabagh and

Eastern Zangazur regions.


  
     1343     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BDI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr President, the world needs a consensual approach to face today’s major challenges: ongoing conflicts, worsening natural disasters and climate change, pervasive poverty and inequality, growing mistrust and discord, weakening compromise, declining international solidarity, and the distant prospect of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.

14.
Mr President, the climate crisis is unfolding before our eyes, and sustainable solutions are delayed due to inadequate climate finance.
Burundi, like other countries in our region, is increasingly affected despite its minimal contribution to global emissions.
We call for **faster access to climate finance** for heavily impacted countries, to mitigate these threats to SDG implementation.
As a signatory of the **Paris Agreement**, Burundi is committed to the **Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs)** and has mainstreamed environmental protection, climate resilience, and food security into national policies and its Vision 2040–2060.
As you are aware, climate shocks also affect public health.
Burundi has integrated health concerns into its climate response and has been ranked **first globally** in considering health in national climate plans, according to the **Global Climate Change Alliance**.

27.


  
     1344     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BEL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

This collective initiative proves that it is still possible to stand united in the face of the climate and environmental emergency.
**Human ingenuity, sustainable competition, and deeply rooted behavioural changes** can mitigate the effects of climate change and help us adapt.
We have redoubled our efforts to further raise our ambitions on climate and oceans.
This autumn, the Biodiversity COP in **Cali** and the Climate COP in **Baku** will once again be key moments for the future of people and the planet.


  
     1345     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BGD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change poses existential threats to us all.
The record-breaking heat wave this summer starkly reminded the world of the climate-induced changes.
What we need is climate justice – so that the irresponsible choices or, indifferent actions or, harms caused are accounted for.
Long-term damages leave irreparable damages all-around: we are losing bio-diversity; changing pathogens leading to newer diseases; farming is under stress; shrinking water wealth threatening habitat; rising sea level and salinity decimating eco-systems.
The climatic risks are faced far deeper by our small farmers and artisanal livelihood-holders.
Yet, Secretary General Guterres showed that under the “current trajectory”, the world is heading for a +2.7°C scenario.
I would hence urge for channeling robust resources for climate adaptation in the climate-vulnerable countries like Bangladesh.
Tackling climate crisis has to go hand in hand with getting global economy in order as well.
The world is increasingly focussed on de-carbonisation.
I believe, the world needs to engage on a shared vision of ‘three zeroes’ that we can materialize together, targeting zero poverty, zero unemployment, and, zero net carbon emissions.
If we can realistically position social business, we can stem much of climate-insenstive distortions within the existing market economy.
High debt burdens, shrinking fiscal space, and adverse impacts of climate change put countries like Bangladesh at greater risk.
The challenges we face – in economic development, climate resilience, or social development – have to be addressed with common endeavours.
These are also crucial for combatting the scourge of non-communicable diseases.


  
     1346     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BGR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

From the unprecedented challenge to the global peace and security to the escalating climate crisis and the persistent inequalities.
Climate change is a threat multiplier for the implementation of all Sustainable Development Goals.
We urge enhanced action based on the Global Stocktake, more ambitious climate objectives, including the new finance goal at 29th Session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 29).
Earlier this year Bulgaria hosted the 61st session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which gave impetus to the Panel’s 7th assessment cycle, including the production of the Special Report on Climate Change and Cities.
Through various parallel events we were able to invigorate the science discussion paying due attention to the Climate Risks in the Black Sea Region as well as to the urban environment, the role of the cities and the need to adapt to a changing climate.


  
     1347     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BHS_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Over the past three years, The Bahamas has been pleading with member states to engage in urgent action in respect of climate change.
And now we all have to live with the reality of a climate crisis, that has pushed our planet past the critical threshold of 1.5°celsius for an entire year.
Member states can somehow quickly find eye-watering sums of money for bullets and bombs, but only rattle small change in their pockets when it comes to financing the costs of loss and damage, repair and recovery, so desperately needed to adapt to the new climate reality.
But we also know that, from where we stand, on the frontline of the impact of climate change on humanity, that the mandate “to co-operate in solving international problems” now, more than ever, requires us to stand up and step forward.
The link between climate change and global security is undeniable.
Climate considerations must be integrated into all aspects of the Security Council’s work.
It is a cruel irony, that industrialized nations who bear the greatest responsibility for the climate crisis, often perpetuate another form of injustice in the form of our current, global system.
We are embracing innovation, particularly in the realm of ocean technology, to find solutions to the climate crisis.
Over 40% of my country’s national debt is as a direct result of the impacts of climate change.
Climate Change: A Threat Multiplier 
We need to stop thinking of climate change merely as an environmental threat.
Our concerted efforts to collectively focus on climate reparations have resulted in new pathways to climate justice at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and at the International Court of Justice.
We remain determined to protect and preserve our climate and our precious biodiversity through the progressive development of international law.
COP29 
COP29 must be a turning point.
It is estimated that by 2050, climate-related damage is projected to rise to an almost unimaginable $38 trillion per year.
Let’s revitalise the stalled negotiations on the ‘New Collective Quantified Goal’ on climate finance.
This is a drop in the ocean, compared to the trillions needed to address the escalating costs of the negative impacts of climate change.
The 1.5 degrees Celsius Reality 
The rise in global temperatures of more than 1.5°C this past year has put us in a new reality.
Re-directing the vast subsidies given to the fossil fuel industry towards renewable energy and climate adaptation and mitigation, would be a powerful start.
We need multilateral development banks that are fit for purpose, providing accessible finance, and prioritizing climate-resilient investments.
The 1.5°C threshold cannot be an endpoint, but a turning point; an opportunity to reject complacency and chart a new course, one grounded in innovation, collaboration, and a resolute commitment to a just and sustainable future.


  
     1348     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BIH_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Regarding climate change, Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully aware of the global situation and is determined to contribute to global efforts.
We are committed to the transition to renewable energy sources and reduction of harmful gas emissions.


  
     1349     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BLZ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
Belize is a member of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), one of 39 countries that have been on the front lines of the climate crisis.
Currently, the 
    Check against delivery 
G20 accounts for some 80 percent of global emissions.
AOSIS Members contribute less than one percent of global emissions.
As SIDS, our people’s livelihoods have long depended on traditional sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and tourism which are climate sensitive.
Climate change is forcing us to break with tradition and to transition despite the limited options to do so.
Each step forward is met with yet another hurdle to overcome and, with increasing probability we face the likelihood of setbacks as climate change impacts worsen.
The severe impacts of sea level rise have irreversible consequences for SIDS.
To this, we reiterate that no matter the physical changes that climate change may bring to our territory, our sovereignty and our right to self-determination remain intact.
We must use every opportunity to put in place the systems and financing necessary to turbocharge our sustainable development and climate goals.
Mr. President, 
The Declaration on Sea Level Rise and Statehood adopted by the Leaders of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) on 23rd  September affirms that the sovereignty or statehood of small island developing states cannot be challenged under any circumstances of climate change-related sea level rise.
To further guarantee that SIDS will be spared the gravest climate threats, global warming must be limited to well below 1.5 degrees Celsius.
Belize urges the G20 to enhance their emission reduction targets to achieve this temperature limit.
For SIDS, adaptation is imperative, and loss and damage associated with climate change is inevitable.
The new climate finance goal to be decided in Baku must contain specific recommendations for minimum allocation to SIDS in relation to grant-based and concessional finance for adaptation and grants for loss and damage.
It must also give effect to the provisions of the Paris Agreement which require enhanced access for SIDS and LDCs to climate finance.
We are working tirelessly to expand vocational training, digital access, and life skills development, ensuring that young people are prepared for the evolving job market and capable of driving innovation in sectors such as agriculture, climate change, and technology.


  
     1350     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BOL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We face not one, but multiple crises that threaten both our present and the future of upcoming generations—from climate change to inequality, pandemics, geopolitical conflicts, and democratic crises.
Global warming, deforestation, pollution, and biodiversity loss are devastating our ecosystems.
The system that has governed the world order since the end of World War II has proven insufficient to address today’s challenges, such as climate change, inequality, regional conflicts, pandemics, and new forms of economic interdependence.
This should be centred on economic justice, sustainability, and inclusion—creating fairer mechanisms for sovereign debt restructuring, increasing the participation of developing countries in financial institutions, and promoting financial flows that support sustainable development and climate action.
Sustainable development and climate change are two sides of the same challenge that will define the future of our planet and future generations.
Action does not only mean reducing emissions—it means transforming our models of production and consumption, protecting biodiversity, and ensuring that economic progress leaves no one behind.
It is important to acknowledge their contributions to climate action—their knowledge and practices offer us a new development model to live well (*Vivir Bien*) in harmony with Mother Earth.

21.


  
     1351     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BRA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

These resources could have been used to combat hunger and address climate change.
In an era of growing polarisation, expressions like “deglobalisation” have become commonplace.
But it is impossible to “de-planetise” our shared existence.
We are condemned to the interdependence imposed by climate change.
The planet no longer waits for the next generation to act, and it is tired of unfulfilled climate agreements.
It is weary of missed emissions reduction targets and the financial aid to poor countries that never arrives.
Denialism is succumbing to the evidence of global warming.
2024 is on track to be the hottest year in modern history.
Beyond confronting the climate crisis, we are fighting those who profit from environmental degradation.
Brazil will host COP-30 in 2025, convinced that multilateralism is the only path to overcoming the climate emergency.
Our updated Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) will be submitted later this year, aligned with the goal of limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C.
We currently possess one of the cleanest energy matrices in the world.
It is time to confront the slow pace of global decarbonisation and to work towards an economy less dependent on fossil fuels.
The debt burden constrains fiscal space for investments in health, education, inequality reduction, and climate action.
This reform must include the following objectives:

- The transformation of the Economic and Social Council into the main forum for sustainable development and climate change, with the power to guide financial institutions;
- The revitalisation of the General Assembly, including in matters of international peace and security;
- The strengthening of the Peacebuilding Commission;
- The reform of the Security Council, with a focus on its composition, working methods, and the right of veto, to make it more effective and representative of contemporary realities.


  
     1352     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BRB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

As the
children of Mother Earth, we continue to wrestle with the
Climate Crisis.
It is not only the climate crisis and loss of biodiversity
but all of the other global challenges that we face.
In the intervening years, in
the face of multiple global crises from health to climate to
finance, the vulnerabilities of SIDS have become more
pronounced.
Let me use this opportunity to inform that, two days ago,
Barbados took over the presidency of the Climate Vulnerable
Forum (CVF) (the V20 countries) from Ghana, whose President
we thank for the excellent stewardship of the Group over the
past two years.
The priorities of my term will be the multiple
dimensions of climate change, the impact of climate change on
human health, and the issue of debt and climate.
I invite all
climate vulnerable United Nations Member States, that have
not yet done so, to join the other 70 countries that are in the
CVF in order to strengthen our collective voice, enhance our
efforts at advocacy and address the climate crisis with urgency.
I commend to you the Declaration of the Leaders of the Climate
Vulnerable Forum, adopted on September 25, Wednesday of this

week.
The Climate Crisis is hitting us almost weekly across the
globe.


  
     1353     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BTN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

More than 72% of our land is under forest cover, and we are recognized as a biodiversity hotspot and a carbon-negative country.


  
     1354     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_BWA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Extreme weather events and related natural disasters continue to remind us of the severity of the climate crisis and the urgency of mitigation and adaptation.
I cannot overemphasize the need for adequate climate finance for effective climate action.
We continue to remind developed countries of their annual $100 billion commitment in climate finance for developing countries until 2025 and call for a more ambitious goal thereafter.


  
     1355     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CAF_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr President,  
Climate change—with its deadly floods, droughts, and wildfires—is fuelling food and water insecurity, competition for natural resources, loss of livelihoods, and mass displacement.
In sub-Saharan Africa, the epicentre of humanitarian crises, environmental disasters this year alone have caused over 1,000 deaths, displaced 4 million climate refugees, and inflicted devastating material losses.
Pledges of climate finance remain unfulfilled.
Mitigation measures adopted at successive COPs are inconsistent, swayed by the political and strategic interests of major powers.
Aware of climate dangers, my country has adopted sectoral policies—whose effectiveness depends in part on still-unreliable climate funding.
The Central African Republic urges the UN to advance the Climate–Peace–Development Nexus by linking climate adaptation with peacebuilding.
This would help holistically address vulnerabilities related to climate change, fragility, and conflict.


  
     1356     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CHE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change and
loss of biodiversity are having an existential impact on ever more people.


  
     1357     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CHL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

But above all, Chile supports the proposal by Africa, led by Nigeria, to address **tax evasion**, **illicit financial flows**, and **inequality in tax collection** through the creation of a **Convention on International Tax Cooperation**—a more transparent and inclusive system of global taxation that helps fund the fight against the **climate crisis**, where countries and multinational corporations alike are held accountable and contribute fairly to the nations from which they derive their wealth.
---

**None of us—** not even the most powerful—can tackle phenomena like **climate change**, **pandemics**, **the digital revolution**, or **transnational organised crime** on our own.
*

---

And I must issue a final call regarding **the most important challenge of our generation: the climate emergency**.
From Chile, we are doing our part: **transitioning our energy matrix away from fossil fuels**, **moving toward carbon neutrality**, **protecting our seas and wilderness**, **safeguarding Antarctica**, and **ratifying the High Seas Treaty (BBNJ)**.


  
     1358     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CHN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the face of aggravating ecological challenges, China is firmly committed to a path of green, low-
carbon and sustainable development.
We will move from carbon peaking to carbon neutrality in the
shortest time span in world history, contributing China’s efforts to harmonious coexistence between
humanity and nature.
At the global level, the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities
must be upheld, and the Paris Agreement must be implemented in earnest.
Developed countries
should assist developing countries in building their capacity to cope with climate change.
Touting the
need of climate response while suppressing the green industries of others will only hold back global
progress in green transition.


  
     1359     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CIV_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

---

**Mr President,**  

The progress achieved by our countries in terms of development and human security is now under threat from the effects of climate change, which deepens inequalities, exacerbates poverty, and forces millions of people to flee their homes each year.
The relentless rise in the number of climate refugees is one of the tragedies of our time—it calls upon us all.
However, we must go further on climate action and resolutely implement the measures that will enable us to reverse, in the short term, the dangerous trajectory of global warming and its impacts on our societies.
To this end, Côte d’Ivoire reiterates its call on developed countries to honour their climate finance commitments and support the energy transition.
The *Loss and Damage Fund* must be promptly replenished and mobilised to relieve the plight of populations suffering from climate hardship.
---

**Ladies and Gentlemen,**

In addition to facing security and climate challenges, the world is undergoing a technological revolution for which few countries are prepared.
The same applies to the fight against climate change, which depends on the capacity of our common Organisation to rally Member States around this priority and ensure they uphold the commitments made in that regard.


  
     1360     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CMR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Among the challenges, we must acknowledge that our common home—the planet Earth—is the victim of extreme climate disruption, threatening the physical survival of certain countries, forested areas, and coastal zones across different regions of the world.
Today, climate-displaced persons are as numerous as refugees and internally displaced people fleeing war.
We have, however, agreed on a set of measures to combat these scourges, notably through the Paris Agreement and various subsequent commitments.
Cameroon, a State Party to the Paris Agreement and home to a significant portion of the Congo Basin rainforest, spares no effort in seeking appropriate solutions, in concert with neighbouring countries, to the current global climate crisis.
Accordingly, it issues an urgent call for the full and unimpeded implementation of the jointly agreed measures contained in the Paris Agreement.
In addition to the climate crisis, there are ongoing and new conflicts and hotspots of tension that spare no geographic region—Sahel, Sudan, Gaza, Lebanon, Ukraine, to name the most prominent.
As we noted earlier in the case of the Paris Agreement for the protection of the planet, the financial and technological means necessary for implementation are not fully mobilised.


  
     1361     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_COD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The United Nations embodies these core values and remains a vital actor in facing the great challenges humanity must overcome—whether ensuring security, tackling climate change, or combating poverty.
---

In response to global challenges and in the promotion of **renewable energy**, the DRC reaffirms its commitment to ambitious **climate action** and emphasises the need for **increased financial and technical support** to meet the targets of the **Paris Agreement**.
With its rich biodiversity and abundant natural resources, the DRC is a key actor in the fight against climate change.
Our efforts to reduce **greenhouse gas emissions** focus on four strategic sectors:  
- **Agriculture**,  
- **Forestry**,  
- **Energy**, and  
- **Waste management**.
A major milestone was achieved in **Bali in November 2022** with the signing of the **Joint Declaration on Tropical Forest Cooperation and Climate Action**, by **Brazil**, **Indonesia**, and the **Democratic Republic of the Congo**.
This declaration led to the creation of the **Trilateral Alliance for Tropical Forest Cooperation**, offering a framework to address biodiversity threats and to advance solutions in carbon markets—while upholding the **rights of Indigenous Peoples**.
Tropical forests are a **critical defence against climate change**.
---

The DRC is adopting **legal frameworks** and **institutional mechanisms** to strengthen its position in the global **carbon market**, while remaining open to **partnerships** consistent with the Paris Agreement and national laws.
Growing awareness of the link between **climate instability**, **resource depletion**, and **armed conflict** calls for urgent action.
We must recognise the **nexus between climate change, environmental degradation, and security**, and develop **proactive solutions** based on **sustainable practices**.
We call upon the **Security Council** to establish **international mechanisms** integrating **climate security issues** into its deliberations.
Fossil fuel–based systems are significant contributors to greenhouse gas emissions.
As we invest in climate action and the SDGs, the DRC is ready to play a **central role** in **transforming global energy systems**.


  
     1362     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_COG_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Indeed, armed conflicts and wars of various kinds—in Ukraine, Palestine, Lebanon, Sudan, the Sahel, the Horn of Africa, eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo—this list, sadly, is not exhaustive—along with the climate crisis, the crushing burden of debt, and the apocalyptic threat of nuclear war, constitute existential challenges that test whatever remains of human wisdom, and force us to question our moral compass.
**Climate change is now an existential threat.
**

This threat, as we know, is multidimensional: rising temperatures, melting glaciers, devastating floods, spreading desertification, the collapse of biodiversity, the eruption of epidemics, and the displacement of populations—these are all stark signs of the fragility now defining our beautiful blue planet.


  
     1363     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_COL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

If we ask that debt be exchanged for climate action, the powerful few do not listen.
Eleven million hectares of the Amazon rainforest burned in a single month—due to global warming and the climate crisis.
Behind the madness of governments that applaud genocide, that delay action to decarbonise economies, lies a certain logic.
In this unprecedented inequality lies the true logic behind climate catastrophe and the bombings unleashed by criminals like Israel’s Prime Minister Netanyahu on Gaza.
**The 1% and the path to extinction**

If wealth were measured in carbon dioxide emissions rather than dollars, the richest 1% would be responsible for the advancing climate crisis.
**Stop fossil capital**

Fossil capital must be stopped.


  
     1364     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_COM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Because we call for strict compliance with the **Paris Agreement** and expect substantial financial and technical support, we look forward to the upcoming **Development Financing Conference**, to be held in **Spain in 2025**.
Recognising the unique circumstances of island states and the vital role of the blue economy, the Comoros—under its presidency of the African Union—organised a **Ministerial Conference on the Blue Economy and Climate Action** in **Moroni, June 2023**, supported by various partners.


  
     1365     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CPV_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Thus, understanding and managing microbial activity is crucial for addressing challenges related to disease control, food security, environmental conservation, and climate change.
Among these crises, climate change disproportionately affects vulnerable nations, especially Small Island Developing States.
We look to COP29 to yield urgent and tangible progress on key climate issues, particularly as the deadline for significant emissions reductions approaches.
Our people, especially communities in Small Island Developing States, seek bolder commitments namely from high-emission countries and swift implementation of climate policies and funding mechanisms that are not only ambitious but also equitable and effective.
The rising sea levels, also caused by climate change, require immediate attention.
We therefore welcome today’s High-Level Meeting on "Addressing the Existential Threats Posed by Sea-level Rise."
We have been focused on the importance of sustainable ocean management, particularly for Small Island Developing States that are very vulnerable to climate change, and the degradation of marine ecosystems.
It is important to bring together key stakeholders in order to boost collaborative solutions for the oceans, help develop research capacities to study the impact of climate change, ocean acidification, and promote knowledge sharing and technology transfer to improve ocean monitoring and observation systems.
Even if we dedicated our entire State Budget to sustainable development and climate action, it would still fall short of the necessary funding targets.
In my capacity as the African Union Champion for Natural and Cultural Heritage and in line with the policies of the government of Cabo Verde, I have been tirelessly advocating for the protection, promotion, and sustainable management of Africa’s rich natural and cultural heritage, which is highly vulnerable to climate change.


  
     1366     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CRI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

It produces 50% of the oxygen we breathe, is the world's largest source of protein, the greatest carbon sink, and a climate regulator, and its biodiversity supports the livelihoods of 3 billion people worldwide.


  
     1367     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CUB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

**Climate change is advancing inexorably.
In **July 2024**, scientists announced **13 consecutive months** of record-breaking global temperatures.
Unless the **irrational and unsustainable capitalist patterns** of production and consumption are **urgently and significantly changed**, it will be impossible to keep the global average temperature increase **below 1.5°C** compared to pre-industrial levels.
Nevertheless, a step in the right direction could be taken at **COP29 in Azerbaijan**, by adopting a **New Collective Quantified Goal on Climate Finance**.
Northern countries would have another opportunity to begin closing the climate finance gap.


  
     1368     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_CYP_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Collective action is urgently needed to address the changing nature of conflicts, including challenges posed by new technologies, the climate emergency, rising inequalities, and backtracking on human rights.


  
     1369     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_DEU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

When we listened to those most affected by the climate crisis, to our SIDS partners, who have been telling us for decades that the climate crisis is threatening their very existence.
When with more than 190 states, we agreed to signal the end of the fossil era, at COP 28.


  
     1370     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_DJI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

---

**Mr President,**

Like many developing states, **Djibouti faces major challenges induced by climate change**, including rising temperatures, water scarcity, and rising sea levels.
In response to these persistent threats, the **Djiboutian Government** has implemented a series of **ambitious and multidimensional measures** to mitigate the effects of climate change and strengthen national resilience.
The upcoming **COP29** offers another window of opportunity for the international community to avoid falling irreversibly behind in meeting climate commitments.
There is an **urgent need** to **operationalise the Loss and Damage Fund**, which was created to support countries and communities suffering from the unavoidable effects of climate change, and to mobilise additional resources.


  
     1371     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_DNK_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Looking forward – towards the Financing for Development Conference in Spain next year, COP29 and beyond – reform tracks must be made tangible.
And we are far from on track to fulfil our climate targets.
The accelerating climate crisis must be met with accelerating climate action.
More support for climate change adaptation.
And we need to speed up – and scale up – climate financing.


  
     1372     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_DOM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would like to emphasise that in the case of the Dominican Republic, we have made **considerable progress on the SDGs**, including in **poverty reduction, food security, energy sustainability, citizen safety, and climate action**.
We are firmly committed to addressing the **triple planetary crisis**—**climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution**—and have played a leading role in the creation of the **loss and damage fund** and in meeting the **30x30 target** for marine territory protection.


  
     1373     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_DZA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We gather once again under the auspices of our United Nations organisation, while our world passes through a turning point of profound sensitivity, urgency, and danger:

A turning point marked by the accumulation of conflicts, crises, and wars;  
by a widening development gap between North and South;  
by the worsening severity of climate change and environmental threats in all their forms.


  
     1374     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ECU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

This requires **strong support from the international community**, which must understand that such goals are only achievable by **avoiding the criminalisation of migration**.

---

**Environment / Climate Change**

The international community must also unite to confront the **devastating effects of climate change**.
The **Paris Agreement** and the principle of **common but differentiated responsibilities** must not be undermined—they must be **strengthened**.
---

**Closing**

**Mr President,**

Security, transnational organised crime, and climate change are some of the **key challenges** facing humanity today.


  
     1375     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_EGY_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Does it protect us from climate change?
The way to transform resource disparities between countries into **comparative advantages**—and avoid widening inequalities—is by enhancing the principle of **common but differentiated responsibilities**, especially with respect to **climate change** and **governance of scarce natural resources**.

---

The scale of climate commitments must be directly tied to the **volume and quality of international support**, including **finance and advanced technology**.
**National ownership of climate actions** is key to aligning domestic priorities with sustainable development and to ensure integration of environmental, economic, and social dimensions.
This was at the heart of our priorities during **COP27 in Sharm El-Sheikh**, and remains our guiding compass as we work toward effective and practical outcomes—first among them, agreement on a **Loss and Damage Fund** to support developing countries most vulnerable to climate change.


  
     1376     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ESP_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

*(Continued in next message)*

**(Continuation of English translation of the speech by the President of the Government of Spain at the UN General Assembly, 25 September 2024)**

I will not deliver a fatalistic speech about the climate emergency.
And science reminds us that there is only one alternative: eliminating fossil fuels, expanding renewable energy, and increasing energy efficiency.
And the world has doubled its installed solar capacity in four years, while fossil fuel-based energy production is rapidly declining.


  
     1377     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ETH_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is a devastating existential threat emanating from arms race, extreme poverty, inequality, and climate change.
This stands  as a substantial global contribution to the absorption of Green-house  gases and a tangible measure against the adverse impacts of climate change.
Based on its Long-term Low Emissions Development Strategy, Ethiopia is also on the path to sustainable energy transformation by developing and transitioning to non-fossil fuel energy sources.
Such efforts must be supported by the full activation of the global  commitments especially through the provision of adequate climate financing.


  
     1378     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_EU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

In my first, in 2015, I listed “the challenges of our generation (...): conflicts, poverty, climate change, migration...”.
---

**Climate, Health, Technological Revolution**  
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
There is no freedom when extreme heat ravages our homes with fire.
Climate change and pandemics have opened our eyes to the necessity of solidarity.
It is in the interest of developed countries to support climate transition in developing countries.
When Kenyan farmers cannot access affordable microcredits to develop their farms and adapt to climate change, this is not a sectoral issue—it is a global development challenge.
The financial firepower of multilateral development banks must be significantly scaled up—to match the real needs of populations, to combat climate threats, and to advance prosperity.


  
     1379     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_FIN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The biggest challenges in the world — climate change, technology, sustainable
development and conflict — are precisely the ones that we must work on together.
To mitigate and adapt to climate change and to halt biodiversity loss, we need to
work together.
If we do not solve the climate
challenge, the crises that follow become unsolvable.
Whether it is about climate change, technology, sustainable development or conflict,
the same challenge remains: the current international institutions do not reflect global
realities.


  
     1380     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_FJI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Small Island Developing States who are on the front lines of climate change and sea-level rise, continue to grapple with the impacts of climate-induced disasters, with devastating consequences for the ecosystem and for vulnerable communities.
Recovery from the frequency and magnitude of climate-
related shocks, including disasters, are a costly affair.
As the global community prepares for the Climate COP in Baku, Azerbaijan, we call on countries to work together with the United Nations to implement the outcomes of the Global 
Stock-take undertaken at COP28.  
 
55.
Deep, rapid and sustained reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in line with 1.5 degrees celcius must be vigorously pursued, and accelerated.
The phase-out of unabated coal power, transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems will contribute to the achievement of net zero targets by 2050.
We call on States to commit to finalising the new collective quantified goal (NCQG) and address glaring gaps in climate finance.
The momentum from COP27 and COP28 on the Loss and Damage Fund, and the Santiago Network must be 
accelerated in order to protect vulnerable communities who stand to lose the most from the climate crisis, particularly in Small Island Developing States and Least Developed 
Countries.
By 2050; around 240 of our coastal communities will be displaced due to sea-level rise.
With the limitations of the multilateral climate financing architecture, Fiji has established the world’s first national 
Relocation Trust Fund to support our relocation costs.   
 
62.
We have issued domestic and international green and blue bonds, piloted low-cost parametric insurance products for rural communities, and engaged the private sector in climate resilience building.   
 
63.


  
     1381     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_FRA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is a growing sense of losing control in the face of wars, climate change, increasing inequalities, and injustice.
France’s territories in the Indo-Pacific bring unique expertise in the fight against climate change, biodiversity protection, clean energy development, and combatting transnational threats.
It must yield results in development, in the fight against inequality—educational, health-related, climatic, and technological.
Why should Northern states lecture those in the South about respecting climate commitments and therefore forgoing economic opportunities—commitments Northern states themselves failed to uphold 20, 30, or 40 years ago?
We must therefore build an agenda that enables simultaneous progress in reducing inequality and advancing economic development—for education, the climate, biodiversity, and global health.
We must also continue our climate and biodiversity agenda.


  
     1382     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_FSM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
 
Since the time Micronesia became a member of the United Nations in September 1991, we have been grappling with the severe impacts  of climate change.
For us, every degree, every inch of sea-level rise,  and every delay matters.
Mr. President, 
I raise an important topic that relates to our island's ability to adapt to and survive the increasing impacts of climate change.
Time is running out to prevent average global temperature from surpassing 1.5 degrees.
Beyond that lies a danger zone with deadly heat that will cost lives, impact our food and water systems, and will drown many of our low-lying islands.
Carbon Dioxide stays in the atmosphere for hundreds of years.
So while it is critical for the world to cut those emissions, the benefit of those cuts will not be felt until later this century.
We need to control temperatures now.
We call upon the larger emitters to prioritize reduction of the non-CO2 pollutants – especially, methane, fluorinated gasses, and black carbon.
The IPCC and more recent scientific reports explains that this is the only way.
I call on all parties to the Paris Agreement to include ambitious nonCO2 goals and measures in their 2025 round of NDCs.
As we take action on non-CO2 pollutants, we also need all countries to come together and agree on a global plan to transition away from fossil fuels in a fair, just and equitable manner.
In this connection, I am announcing that Micronesia endorses the Fossil Fuel Nonproliferation Treaty Initiative.
We must accelerate all of our efforts to tackle the climate crisis.
Mr. President,  
The health of our ocean is deteriorating , due to effects of climate change and green-house gas emissions.
One of the most hard-hitting issues we are confronted with is sea-level rise.
I am very pleased that the General Assembly is hosting for the first time a high-level meeting on sea-level rise this week.
Sea-level rise poses a significant threat to the livelihoods, well-being, and security of our small island nation’s communities and ecosystems.
However, this climate crisis does not jeopardize our statehood or sovereignty, nor does it diminish our rights under international law.
Leaders from the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) and the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) have affirmed that our maritime zones, as recognized by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, will remain valid despite physical changes due to climate change.
We emphasize that the statehood and sovereignty of PIF and AOSIS members will endure, along with the associated rights and responsibilities, including the protection of our citizens, regardless of the impacts of sea-level rise.
This treaty must address plastic pollution at its source—plastic production, particularly primary plastic polymers derived from fossil fuels.
As negotiations near completion, we urge global backing for the Declaration to ensure the treaty includes strong measures to curb plastic production and tackle both pollution and climate change.
If we do not address the unsustainable production of primary plastic polymers, then the global goal of ending plastic pollution by 2040 and limiting the average temperature rise to less than 1.5 degrees celsius cannot be achieved.
Micronesia is dedicated to reducing and preventing the causes and impacts of climate change and sea level rise.
With the support of our partners, we are committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050.
We pledge to safeguard the future of our people by protecting our sovereignty, maritime zones, and resources, especially in the face of climate-induced sea level rise.
Mr. President,  
Micronesia joins Pacific Island nations in advocating for the establishment of a Special Representative for Climate, Peace, and Security, emphasizing that climate change is a significant global security threat.
The UN system, particularly the Security Council, must adapt to address the challenges posed by the climate crisis in a comprehensive and coordinated manner.
Mr. President, 
The special case of SIDS in the context of climate change and sustainable development and our particular vulnerability to natural disasters and external shocks must be supported by an increase in climate finance and investment, including new and additional climate finance.
Our young people are the innovators, the visionaries, and the problem-solvers who will carry the torch of climate action and global justice.
In closing, Mr. President –  
The challenges we face—from climate change to conflict, from the health of our oceans to the well-being of our people—demand urgent and unified action.


  
     1383     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GAB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I would remind you that for several years, Gabon has designated 13 national parks in service to humanity, contributing to the absorption of over **100 million net tonnes of CO₂ annually**, and the preservation of endangered species.
This is why I take this opportunity to once again call on industrialised nations to **genuinely honour their commitments** by supporting countries that house the world’s largest carbon sinks.


  
     1384     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GBR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

And to grapple only with the effects… 
 
Of war, poverty, climate change, pandemics…  
 
Or irregular migration… 
 
When they arrive on our doorstep… 
 
Is to set ourselves up to fail.
Tackling climate change, at home and internationally…
The threat of climate change is existential.
To transition to clean power by 2030.
Backed up with an ambitious NDC at COP29… 
 
Consistent with limiting warming to 1.5 degrees…
So the UK will continue to be a leading contributor… 
 
To international climate finance.
That includes supporting nature and forests… 
 
Because this is vital for biodiversity and reducing emissions.
And it includes funding for climate adaptation...
In British International Investment… 
Which will work with the City of London… 
 
To mobilise billions in pension and insurance funds… 
 
To invest in boosting development… 
 
And fighting climate change.
And we must put a price on the true cost of emissions… 
 
Through a new levy on global shipping… 
 
With the proceeds going to tackle climate change… 
 
And cut emissions even further.
Unlocking hundreds of billions more… 
 
To help the poorest and build a low-carbon global economy.
Joining the Paris Pact for People and Planet…  
 
Pursuing a new global Clean Power Alliance… 
 
Standing for a new term on the Human Rights Council… And joining forces to tackle the toughest challenges… 
 
Like Anti-Microbial Resistance… 
 
Preparedness for the next pandemic…  
 
And outbreaks of deadly diseases like Mpox.
Making progress in the fight against climate change and poverty... 
And reforming the international system… 
 
So that it's fit for the 21st century...


  
     1385     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GEO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We gather here in times of unprecedented global challenges, when interlinking crises of escalating conflicts, climate change, and rising humanitarian needs remain complex.


  
     1386     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GIN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

At this time of global turmoil, marked by conflicts, growing inequalities, and a climate crisis that threatens our very existence, it is imperative that we act boldly and unite in vision.
To these human tragedies we must add the devastating impacts of climate change, which worsen conflicts and increase the vulnerability of the poorest.
It is urgent to ensure fair climate financing and adopt energy transition policies that leave no one behind.


  
     1387     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GMB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

To succeed, however, the international community must recommit to implementing the resolutions of the Summit of the Future to tackle such critical global challenges as climate change, poverty, transnational crimes, and conflict.
On youth matters, at a recent consultative summit, stakeholders recommended a sharper focus on Innovation and Climate Change, Gender Equity, Bridging the Digital Divide, and Global Governance that promotes youth empowerment through employment, education, and health.
Based on this, last year, The Gambia joined the international community by co-sponsoring UN General Assembly consensus resolution 77/276, which sought to engage the International Court of Justice (ICJ) on the obligations of States regarding climate change.
Mr. President, 
 
 
We recognise that dictatorship, conflict, climate change, poverty, and lack of opportunities are part of the root causes of migration.


  
     1388     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GNB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Specifically, we must strive to finance development programs, reduce inequalities, protect the environment and mitigate the effects of climate change.
Global warming and rains associated with climate change are expanding the geographic reach of mosquitos, thus exposing more than 170 million people to the threat of malaria in the African continent.


  
     1389     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GNQ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

"*—this theme reflects the current global context, which encompasses enormous challenges such as armed conflicts, the proliferation of armed groups, terrorism, crises caused by climate change, organised criminal gangs, the prospect of new health emergencies, discrimination, and food insecurity as a result of conflicts that either cause or risk causing famine in various countries.


  
     1390     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GRC_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Whether it be escalating conflicts, geopolitical division, the climate crisis, mass migration, rising inequality, even the unchecked rise of Artificial Intelligence, these challenges jeopardize our present and our future.
There is potential for increased co-operation to tackle common challenges, such as climate change and migration.
If used correctly, it could very well be driving solutions across science, climate change, R&D, medicine.
Unlike with climate change, where we continue to convene globally to discuss national contributions within the context of a global problem, with AI there no such framework.


  
     1391     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GRD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

So today, I want to speak about resilience in the face of climate change, paths to economic resilience, and the role of education in ensuring both.
Grenada, like many other small island developing states, is baffled by the continued debate in some spaces about whether climate change exists.
Rising sea levels are already affecting lives and livelihoods in our coastal villages, and warming seas continue to spawn stronger and more frequent storms.
And the message that we in the Caribbean have for those who are looking to adapt to climate change is simple: Learn from us.
We are looking for partnerships where we can work together on climate adaptation.
The lessons we are learning can help nations facing their own climate crises, from wildfires in Canada to flooding in Europe.
We are asking for the $100 billion promised to support climate adaptation and mitigation to be met.
We offer the knowledge that comes from living with and dealing with the worst of climate change, from building back after devastation, and from finding innovative policies and programmes to secure a digital future.


  
     1392     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GTM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Conflicts and migration in Central America are driven by what we consider the most urgent global challenge: the climate crisis.
Climate change is a devastating reality.
Although Guatemala is a megadiverse country, we are also highly vulnerable to extreme weather events that produce natural disasters, floods, landslides, wildfires, and rising temperatures—as we have all witnessed this year.
Our contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is minimal, yet we are among the territories most affected by these extremes.
In 2025, we will submit our updated Nationally Determined Contribution, fulfilling our commitments under the Paris Agreement.
It is essential that COP29 in Azerbaijan is a success.


  
     1393     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_GUY_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

If it is, we all agree on ending and preventing wars;  
If it is, we all agree that the Security Council requires reform;  
If it is, we all agree that the international financial system is unfair and unjust to the developing world; and  
If it is we all believe in climate, food and energy security; then what is stopping us from acting!
Mr. President 
Of the myriad challenges confronting our world, climate change threatens our very existence, adversely affecting development across all countries.
Rising sea levels and temperatures, severe natural disasters, and shifting and extreme weather patterns disrupt agriculture and food security, threaten water supply, and displace communities.
Our forest stores 19.5 gigatons of carbon and sequesters 153 million tons annually.
We recognise their leadership and 15% of all revenues earned from carbon sales are directly transferred to our 
Indigenous communities.
Mr. President 
Even with our new-found natural resource - oil and gas, it would require less than 20 percent of sequestered carbon to offset our 
emissions at maximum output.
We believe it is only fair and just that this global asset be monetized in a fair carbon market.
The primary causes were conflict and insecurity, extreme weather events, including those related to El Niño, and climate change and economic shocks.
To effectively address food insecurity, we must take more concerted action to address its root causes: reducing conflict, mitigating climate change, and enhancing food production and trade in food commodities.
By prioritizing peace and climate action, we can create environments where food systems, crops and livelihoods are not threatened by conflict and weather extremes.
Today, we find ourselves in a world where the quest for peace is met with the defiant echo of conflict, where the promise of sustainable development is eclipsed by the dangerous spectre of climate change and food insecurity, and where the dignity of millions of people is trampled upon with impunity.


  
     1394     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_HRV_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

• From the proliferation of conflicts and deteriorating geopolitical situation to climate crises and food insecurity, the world is at a critical juncture where every nation, regardless of its size, plays a vital role.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT, CLIMATE, DIGITAL 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
• Croatia’s commitment to sustainable development is deeply rooted in its unique position as one of the most biodiverse and nature-rich countries in Europe.
We have built our strategy on the three main, interrelated development pillars: digital transformation, decarbonisation and demographic revitalization.
• Humanity's greatest challenge of the 21st century is climate change, coupled with loss of biodiversity, reduction of food and natural resources, increase in the number of droughts, fires and floods, as well as the acceleration of sea level rise.
• Croatia is located in the Mediterranean, one of the world’s regions expected to be hit hardest by climate change.
• Promoting nature-based solutions is one of our main national tools for climate change adaptation and mitigation.
• For this reason, we need to strengthen the multilateral system of dealing with climate, biodiversity and sustainable development.
• Croatia presided this year over the Humanitarian Affairs Segment of the Economic and Social Council, against the challenging backdrop of unresolved conflicts and eruption and escalation of new ones, climate-related disasters, disease outbreaks, economic shocks and famine for millions of people.
• Focusing the discussion on the consequences of the erosion of respect for international humanitarian law, clear and strong calls were heard across the board for upholding international humanitarian law, ending impunity, bolstering women's leadership, addressing climate emergency and for ethical and responsible use of new technologies.


  
     1395     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_HTI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

It is an urgent call for unity and international cooperation at a time when inequality, conflict, and climate crises increase the vulnerability of millions.
Climate change is undoubtedly one of the gravest threats of our time.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), global temperatures have already risen by approximately 1.1°C above pre-industrial levels, resulting in intensified extreme weather events—hurricanes, droughts, and floods—that disproportionately affect vulnerable countries like Haiti.
In 2023, the UNDP estimated that over 100 million additional people could fall into poverty by 2030 due to climate impacts.
Although Haiti contributes very little to global greenhouse gas emissions, it bears the brunt of these effects, exacerbating our struggle for food security, access to clean water, and economic stability.
Conflicts, economic instability, and climate change drive this alarming trend.
This agreement is vital to safeguarding marine biodiversity, ensuring the sustainable use of ocean resources, and bolstering the resilience of island states like ours against climate threats.


  
     1396     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_IDN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

But the global pandemic and impacts of climate change has shown us all that to prosper together we must work together.


  
     1397     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_IND_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate events occur with greater intensity and frequency.
Evasion of climate action responsibilities by the developed undermines the growth prospects of the developing.


  
     1398     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_IRL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

It requires us to address the interlocking crises of climate change, conflict, hunger,
injustice and under-development.
Mr President,

We are already seeing the destructive impacts of climate change.
It is clear that climate change is a driver and multiplier of instability and conflict.
Climate change threatens us all.
Those who have contributed least to climate change are among the most vulnerable to
its impacts.
As we approach COP 29, we must do everything we can to reduce fossil fuel emissions.
We need collective action, at speed and at scale to avert the most catastrophic impacts
of the climate crisis.


  
     1399     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_IRQ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

**Ladies and Gentlemen,**

Iraq is facing **serious environmental challenges** as a result of **climate change and desertification**—challenges that cannot be addressed without enhanced international cooperation.


  
     1400     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ISL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
Iceland strongly emphasizes global actions against climate change, both mitigation and adaptation.
Climate change is not a distant threat; it is a reality already impacting the lives and livelihoods of millions of people.
Climate change threatens the health of the ocean, which Iceland is highly dependent on.
One of the many meetings I attended this week was a high-level meeting on sea level rise, which strongly indicates that our ocean environment is destabilizing.
This is yet another challenge we must address – and we believe that only through more determined climate change mitigation can we limit the effects of sea level rise.


  
     1401     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ITA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The path toward reducing environmental emissions is at a crossroads, squeezed between ideological approaches and a lack of solidarity, particularly from the world’s top greenhouse gas emitters.


  
     1402     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_JAM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Jamaica’s economic transition “the little country that can”  
 
Mr. President, 
 
Jamaica is a small island located in the second most climate vulnerable region in the world.
Climate practical realities and climate justice 
 
Mr. President, 
 
These advancements have been hard-won.
Even as we acknowledge the sacrifices made to enable our achievements, we recognize that our many successes can be eroded by exogenous shocks including climate change, which we view as a clear and present threat to humanity.
As a Small Island Developing State, Jamaica is severely affected by higher temperatures, warmer seas, sea-level rise and the increased intensity and frequency of natural disasters.
Our new climate-smart agricultural practices were no match for the hurricane, as her winds took the panels for solar powered irrigation pumps and flattened 70% of greenhouses.
Natural and climate-based disasters continue to set back our efforts to attain the SDGs and realize sustained, inclusive growth and development.
Mr. President,  
 
It bears repeating that no country can combat the effects of climate change on its own.
Jamaica, therefore, affirms our unwavering commitment to international cooperation to counter the negative impacts of climate change and to the pursuit of climate justice.
We urge the major polluting nations to honour their commitments under the Paris Agreement and to meet their finance obligations.
More particularly, Jamaica endorses the calls for a redoubling of international cooperation and action to accelerate mitigation and adaptation.
All countries must adopt or maintain the target of limiting global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius, through enhanced NDCs, based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Jamaica calls on the UN and international financial institutions to adopt a new Climate Finance Goal at COP29.


  
     1403     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_JPN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change is a common challenge to all humankind and a critical issue that the international community collectively needs to address.
Japan has identified climate change as the greatest challenge that needs to be overcome by bringing about a “New Form of Capitalism.”
We are steadily taking actions and are on track to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
As an initiative to embody these ideas, Japan has proposed the concept of the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC).
We are working with other Asian countries to simultaneously achieve decarbonization, economic growth and energy security in the region.


  
     1404     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KAZ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Entire continents are affected by the climate crisis.
Excellencies, 
 
Another existential threat no nation can afford to ignore is climate change.
This year is expected to be the hottest on record.
We therefore call again on G-20 countries and multilateral development banks to share the burden by providing green technologies and concessional financing to low- and middle-income countries in line with the Paris Agreement.
Our region stands on the frontline of global warming despite accounting for only 1 percent of global emissions.
Central Asia will face an above average 2.5 degree increase in temperatures by 2050.
This sober reality has deepened our commitment to addressing climate change.
That  is  why   my  country   will  host  a  
Regional Climate Summit in 2026, aimed at further enhancing cooperation among UN members on climate resilience and green transition.
Excellencies, 
 
One of the consequences of climate change is water scarcity across the world.


  
     1405     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KEN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Since the last General Assembly, the global situation has deteriorated across multiple fronts; conflicts have deepened, economic disparities have widened, and the climate crisis has intensified.
The Covid-19 pandemic, escalating conflicts, geopolitical tensions, and climate change have severely impacted progress towards the SDGs and Paris Agreement goals.
This is not just a moral and fairness imperative; it is a strategic necessity to address systemic challenges such as migration, labor market disparities, climate change, and global security.
Harnessing this potential is crucial not only for the continent’s economic growth and social resilience, but also for global priorities like accelerating the energy transition, combating climate change, and diversifying supply chains.
Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges of our time.
Extreme weather conditions continue to hinder the development aspirations of many countries, especially in Africa, where severe climate-related hazards are becoming more frequent and intense.
In 2022, over 110 million people in Africa were directly affected by climate related disasters, resulting in more than $8.5 billion in economic damages.
We are at a crossroads, and the path to correcting the climate course is clear.
However, the new climate finance goal expected at COP29 faces significant hurdles, as deep disagreements persist over who should contribute and how much funding is needed.
Without swift resolution, these divisions risk derailing our collective progress on climate action, just as the global situation becomes increasingly urgent.
Let me be clear: political posturing and inaction will neither protect the vulnerable from the consequences of a runaway climate crisis nor save our civilization from ecosystem collapse.
As we confront the escalating impacts of climate change, we must also recognise the interconnected environmental challenges we face, such as plastic pollution, which continues to wreak havoc on ecosystems and threatens global sustainability.
The challenges we face: from climate crises to economic inequality, demand a bold rethinking of how we work together, grounded in mutual respect and shared responsibility.
Our collective efforts to combat climate change must be rooted in fairness and equity, ensuring that no nation or community bears a disproportionate burden.


  
     1406     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KGZ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

On behalf of the Kyrgyz Republic, I reaffirm our commitment to international law, the principles and provisions of the UN Charter and express our full support for the Organization’s efforts to maintain international security, address global social, economic and climate challenges, and protect human rights and freedoms.
Modern global challenges, such as the climate crisis, threats to food security and growing inequality, require the united efforts of the international community.
We are facing unprecedented challenges – a global climate catastrophe, economic inequality dividing peoples and continents, and, of course, conflicts that destroy hope for a peaceful future.
We must ensure that the money that allocates to wars, destruction, death, could go to creation or to solving global challenges for all of humanity, to help countries in their fight against climate change, to prevent mass displacement and global migration.
Countries at the very bottom of the economic pyramid need investment in healthcare, education, infrastructure and climate change mitigation.
Resources that are directed to military needs could make a huge contribution to addressing global challenges - whether it is access to clean water, education for children in developing countries, fighting famine, or financing climate change programs.
Dear colleagues, 
 
One of the most dangerous challenges threatening the very existence of our planet is climate change, which is getting worse every day and affects almost all countries and peoples worldwide.
Kyrgyzstan faces a triple challenge - the need to invest in development, reduce poverty and adapt to climate change to achieve carbon neutrality.
Each of these areas requires special financing, especially in the context of ensuring climate resilience for our country and vulnerable communities.
Kyrgyzstan proposes to strengthen and globally expand the debt-for-nature mechanism, thus helping developing and least developed countries jointly combat climate change.
We also propose a mechanism of swapping the external debt to climate and sustainable development projects, and we are working on creating a Climate Trust Fund that will finance environmental projects in mountainous regions.
The Kyrgyz Republic pays special attention to climate issues in the implementation of its national policy and, based on the principles of green development, sets an ambitious goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.
More than 95% of our energy is produced mainly by hydropower plants, which are the main driver towards achieving the goal of zero emissions.
Furthermore, we are promoting the initiative to include a permanent global dialogue on “Mountains and Climate” in the annual program of the UN Climate Change Conference.


  
     1407     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KHM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Military spending has surged across the world, draining resources that could be used to address multiplying nontraditional threats—threats that no single country can effectively tackle alone, such as climate change, pandemics, food insecurity, technological disruptions, transnational crime and backsliding on SDGs.
Cambodia also fully supports the Secretary-General's call for bold climate actions.
To achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, as it has pledged it would do, Cambodia has launched many measures, including raising the current 62% renewable energy share to at least 70% by 2030, by promoting reforestation and by providing incentives to green-investment projects.
Cambodia actively participates in global climate negotiations, and it looks forward to the upcoming COP 29 in Baku, Azerbaijan.


  
     1408     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KIR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The United Nations must remain the central platform for collective global action,
 
own - be it pandemics, terrorism, conflict, human trafficking, and climate change to name a few.
Mr. President allow me at this juncture to highlight     
perspectives on some pertinent issues for small islands such as climate change and sea level rise, the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), marine conservation and protection and the Pact of the future and on the crucial link between Peace, Sustainable Development, Human Dignity and the concept of Leaving No one Behind as highlighted in the theme.
our economic challenges but also our acute vulnerability to climate change.
While we are committed to the long-term goal of graduating from the LDC category, we recognize that the path to graduation must take into account the unprecedented challenges we face, particularly in areas of climate change, economic resilience, and social development.
Climate change, rising sea levels, and economic fragility pose threats to our people.
We believe that humanity must be fully informed that the riches and resources of the planet are finite and must not be overexploited to the extent
 
in the climate crisis caused by the overexploitation of the planet resources during the past century of industrialization.
While international dialogue on climate change has been extensive, Kiribati urges that we move beyond words to concrete actions.
Climate change is undeniably the driving force behind sea level rise.
Kiribati continues to grapple with the challenges posed by sea level rise, which endangers our land, agriculture and our way of life.
The AOSIS declaration on sea level rise and statehood encourages our dedication to building resilience against climate impacts and emphasizes the urgent need for global action.
The United Nations recognition of the profound impacts of climate change and sea level rise, through the establishment of a high-level platform to address sea level rise during this 79th session of the UNGA, is a notable and welcome step.
It reflects the urgency of addressing climate change and its devastating consequences on vulnerable communities worldwide.
In line with our commitment to the 2050 Blue Pacific Strategy, we strongly advocate for global climate action including maintaining the 1.5degree Celsius goal and addressing sea level rise as essential to safeguarding the livelihoods, identity, sovereignty and security of Pacific Island Communities especially low-lying atolls, which are only 2 to 3 meters above sea level.
Focusing on several key areas aimed at promoting sustainable development, resilience, and addressing the unique challenges faced by Small Island Developing States such as climate change resilience, sustainable economic development, access to financing, biodiversity conversation to name a few.
The proposed Pact for the Future offers an essential roadmap for strengthening global cooperation on key issues, including climate change, digital transformation, and peacebuilding.


  
     1409     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KNA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We cannot build secure na:ons while allowing the climate crisis to rob future genera:ons of their birthright.
Today, the Caribbean braces for an intense hurricane season, facing the escala:ng fury fueled by warming oceans and unprecedented storms.
Our islands are the sen:nels of climate change and the proving ground for sustainable development.
For us small island developing states, the MVI is not just another metric; it is a lifeline, offering a means to cushion the relentless blows of clima:
Saint Ki>s and Nevis stands in solidarity with the Government of Barbados in its fight for financial and climate jus:ce, pledging our full support for the Bridgetown Ini:a:ve.
Construc:ng our first, modern, climate-smart hospital.
climate-smart, affordable housing solu:ons, ensuring that our people have a safe, sustainable place to call home.


  
     1410     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_KOR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Meanwhile, records suggest that we are brushing dangerously close to the critical threshold of 1.5 Celsius degrees.


  
     1411     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LAO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
 Today, the international community is facing multifaceted challenges taking place across various regions, such as geo-political tensions, armed conflicts, economic and financial crisis, ever more frequent and devastating natural disasters resulting from climate change, rising poverty and wide spreading of social unrests worldwide, among others.
Another key factor that can help accelerate national development efforts is the role of science, technology and innovation, including artificial intelligence, in facilitating Green Growth and Digitalization that is environmentally friendly and investment in carbon capture and storage.
The Lao PDR always take into consideration our common responsibility for future generations, and thus highly values the adoption of the Declaration on Future Generations which prescribes the principles and commitments to protecting our world peace and stability, ensuring equal access to social services, information and innovation while addressing impacts of climate change, among others.
Despite being one of the least emission polluting countries in the world, the Lao PDR, like many other countries, has encountered severe consequences of climate change and natural disasters.
Hence, the Lao PDR has adopted its National Strategic Plan on Climate Change and committed to contributing to the international efforts in addressing climate change.
Allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate all on the success of the High-level meeting on Sealevel Rise on 25 September 2024, which has reiterated the need for strong international cooperation to address climate change.


  
     1412     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LBR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Innate greed, insensitivity to the poor, the international drug epidemic, money launderings, dynamics of climate change and the impact of social media must compel us to rethink our approach to global peace and security.
The world is facing numerous crises, including global threats such as diseases, security, and climate change, as well as food and resource shortages.
Page 4|6

Climate change is undeniably real, and its threat to our environment and way of life is becoming increasingly apparent.
We must take urgent action to address this threat, including cooperative efforts to implement Article 6.2 of the Paris Agreement.
As a result, our country is taking important steps to lead the conversation on climate action.
My Government has called on our Legislature and other stakeholders to begin looking at the Paris Agreement, particularly under Article 6 to help advance actions towards establishing Liberia’s Nationally Determined Contribution to combat climate change.
While we take these actions, we are mindful of the need to build capacity and invest in critical areas of our economy such as using alternative financing for investment in the blue and green economy, and technological transfer to support these climate actions.


  
     1413     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LCA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

These inter-related factors, Mr. President, have been significantly exacerbated by external shocks, including frequent and major fluctuations in energy prices, financial crises, and more recently, the Covid Pandemic and the Russian-Ukraine war; not to mention the planet’s greatest existential threat; climate change.
In this regard, Mr President, there is a pressing need for immediate action to halt and reverse the slow progress that is being made on the issue of climate change and climate justice.
This General Assembly needs no reminders of the violent and destructive impact of climate change and the extent of the peril in which the world, particularly SIDS, finds itself as a result.
Further, it is essential that at the forthcoming COP 29, the special circumstances of SIDS are protected and operationalised across the entire Climate Change Policy agenda.
Mr President, in the same way the world must recompense SIDS for the injustice of the climate crisis that we are suffering, those countries, which propelled their economic development through the unholy and inhumane transatlantic slave trade and slavery of our African ancestors, must pay reparations for this crime against humanity which they inflicted upon the people they brought from Africa to the Caribbean and the Americas as well as on the indigenous peoples of those regions.
The time for Climate Justice for SIDS is now!


  
     1414     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LIE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are gratified to see that the International Court of Justice and its decisions is looked at for guidance in our decision-making in challenges ranging from the two-state solution to the applicability of the Genocide Convention to climate change.


  
     1415     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LKA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The achievement of the SDGs now appears beyond our reach, and we are off target on the Paris Climate Goal to limit the temperature increase to 1.50C above pre-industrial levels.
Mr. President, 
 
Beyond economic recovery, we face an even greater existential threat: the ongoing climate crisis, and the accompanying need for a just energy transition.
Although our development trajectory has not contributed to climate degradation, Sri Lanka has taken concrete steps to address these challenges.
Without a concerted international effort to bridge the climate financing gap, the burden of climate impacts will continue to fall most heavily on those least responsible for the crisis.
Sri Lanka is committed to phase out coal by 2040 and reach net zero carbon emission by 2050.
As a climate vulnerable country, Sri Lanka has been advocating for operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund and called for climate justice.
There is an urgent need for increased climate financing, especially for vulnerable, developing nations like Sri Lanka.
Sea level rise is an imminent reality affecting millions.
While Sri Lanka has taken mitigation measures nationally, as included in the National Adaptation Plan for Climate Change, it is through concerted international action that solutions can be implemented to halt the global warming that is the cause of sea level rise.
Sri Lanka initiated the UNGA resolution on declaring 1st March as the World Sea Grass Day, to bring international attention and awareness on a small but significant aspect of universal importance of combatting climate change.
However, South-South Cooperation is not a substitute for the responsibilities of the global North as set out in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris Agreement.


  
     1416     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LSO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

UNDER YOUR LEADERSHIP, THE UNITED NATIONS HAS NAVIGATED NUMEROUS OBSTACLES, INCLUDING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC, ESCALATING DEBT CRISES, AND THE IMPACTS OF 
CLIMATE CHANGE.
THE CURRENT CRISES OF HUNGER, POVERTY, DISEASE, AND CLIMATE CHANGE THREATEN TO REVERSE THE PROGRESS MADE OVER THE 
LAST CENTURY.
IN LESOTHO, CLIMATE CHANGE EXACERBATES 
ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION, IMPACTING AGRICULTURE, WATER 
RESOURCES, AND  ENERGY SUPPLIES, LEADING TO     FOOD 
SHORTAGES WHICH HAVE COMPELLED THE GOVERNMENT TO DECLARE A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN FOOD SECURITY.


  
     1417     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LTU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

For many decades, we have been trying to resolve multiple conflicts and crises and address emerging global challenges such as climate change, unequal development, food insecurity, terrorism, and illegal migration.


  
     1418     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_LVA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

There can be no sustainable development without peace and consistent global action on climate change.
The ongoing conflicts and crises around the
world aggravate the effects of climate change.
We strongly believe that the United Nations Security Council must address climate change as an
existing risk for global peace and security.
We closely follow the International Law Commission's deliberations aimed at clarifying the impact of sea level rise on
statehood.


  
     1419     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MAR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

“At a time when our planet is facing climate disruptions that are imposing a new reality—confirmed by data day after day—the world remains mired in problems we thought had been largely resolved, thanks to the multilateral rules and institutions established in the aftermath of the Second World War.”
**Climate change** remains at the forefront of the major challenges facing our planet.
A look at reality leads to the conclusion that African countries are among the **most affected by the impacts of climate change**, despite being among the world’s **least responsible** for it.
It is essential, therefore, to **revise borrowing frameworks and rules** to better account for the constraints faced by African countries in adapting to climate change.
Morocco calls for the creation of **innovative financial mechanisms** that enhance the positive impact of climate funds while ensuring sound debt management.
This is the approach Morocco is implementing in various areas, including **climate change**, **migration**, and the **fight against terrorism**.

19.


  
     1420     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MCO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, biodiversity loss, ecosystem degradation, and the many forms of pollution affecting both land and ocean—the cradle of life—are disrupting the daily lives of millions and causing immense economic losses.
We now possess **a number of major international instruments** that must serve as our compass in this storm:  
- the **Paris Agreement**,  
- the **Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework**,  
- the **BBNJ Agreement** (on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction),  
- and, I hope soon, a new international agreement to **combat plastic pollution worldwide**.
**

Then, at the end of the year in **Baku**, during the **COP29 of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change**, we will set a new collective goal for climate finance, to assist developing countries.
I think in particular of **Small Island Developing States**, which are especially vulnerable to sea level rise.


  
     1421     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MDA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, poverty, and the global cost-of-living crisis are our generational challenges.
And now a word on climate change.
Climate change risks destroying many things we heavily rely on throughout the planet.


  
     1422     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MDG_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

**The climate emergency** has become a tangible and devastating reality.
Effective implementation of the **Paris Agreement** and stronger commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions are **categorical imperatives** to safeguard our planet and ensure the well-being of future generations.
** the urgency of mobilising the **USD 100 billion** promised under the Paris Agreement to fund an energy transition in Africa.
Climate action cannot be dissociated from development.
Although a **low emitter of greenhouse gases**, Madagascar is among the **most vulnerable countries** to climate change.
As one of the few countries with a **negative carbon footprint**, thanks to our forests—some of the **green lungs of Africa**—Madagascar urges the **international community** to **intensify and accelerate climate adaptation financing**, particularly for **vulnerable island nations** like ours.


  
     1423     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MDV_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Conflict, poverty, hunger, climate change, the wealth gap, the cost-of-living crisis, migration, occupation, opioid addiction, the list goes on and on and on… 
 
Infact, I have a map here of the world with countries which are facing some sort of crisis in red.
It will be developed as a climate resilient and safe island.
Threats, such as armed conflict, terrorism, violent extremism, transnational organized crimes, climate change, ocean degradation – crimes that transcend national borders.
Mr President,  
 
Climate change is the most serious threat to our world; the defining challenge of our generation.
Preventing countries from adapting to climate impact.
We must face the climate emergency head-on.
As we work towards COP29, we must ensure the new goal on climate finance matches the level of climate action required.
One of the biggest victims of the climate crisis is the ocean.
We urge you to do your part to address climate change, overcome pollution, and reverse biodiversity loss.
But what we are witnessing is the opposite: inability to stop climate change and environmental degradation; inability to stop war and genocide; inability to stop exploitation and suffering; inability to stop unequal representation.


  
     1424     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MEX_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

**

---

**Climate change**, as economist Nicholas Stern said, is “the greatest market failure of all time” and also our greatest collective challenge.
Mexico reaffirms its commitment to:
- The **Paris Agreement**
- The **Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework**
- Synergies among the **Rio Conventions**

We propose **measuring and restoring ecosystem integrity**, recognising ecosystems as providers of essential goods, services, and climate stability.
We participated in **legal proceedings** at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, and the International Court of Justice regarding **state responsibility in climate change**.


  
     1425     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MHL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our own unique legacy and complex challenges with nuclear testing impacts, with climate change, and other fundamental challenges, informs our perspective, that the voices of the most vulnerable must never be drowned out.
Mr. President, 
Sea levels have risen, and we are too late to prevent them from eating away at our shores.
Sea-level rise poses a threat to long term ability to remain in our islands, and to our fundamental security as a nation and within our ocean-locked Pacific islands region.
The Marshall Islands strongly supports the recent  Declaration of the Heads of State and Government of the Alliance of Small Island States on Sea-Level Rise and Statehood, and we urge other nations to join us in support.
The Marshall Islands welcomes this year’s High Level Meeting on Sea-Level rise, and the ongoing work of the International Law Commission- as an opportunity to  engage on complex multilateral questions, even where SIDS have already established state practice.
By February next year, every nation on Earth has committed to putting forward new nationally determined contributions that set out how they’ll reduce emissions to keep global temperature rise below 1.5 degrees Celsius.
We need governments to show both ambition and cooperation, as we all agreed last year, to triple renewable energy deployment, double energy efficiency, and most importantly, to accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels and end the subsidies that support them.
Despite this, we have seen some of the planet’s wealthiest countries break their pledges, as they double down on fossil fuels.
The financial needs for this energy transition, for adapting to climate impacts, and for repairing the rising loss and damage are in the trillions of dollars.
Instead of rewarding some of the richest and most polluting businesses on the planet, we should repurpose these funds to the roll-out of renewables, and to directly supporting the poorest and most vulnerable.
Right now in the IMO, Pacific Island negotiators are leading efforts to agree on a universal greenhouse gas levy which  gives  the right incentive to drive decarbonization of the shipping industry and raises revenue in the billions - a portion of which should be used to address the climate impacts from shipping pollution and help build resilience in vulnerable countries.
The Marshall Islands emphasizes the importance of the Advisory Opinion from the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea regarding the marine environment from climate-driven pollution.
We look forward to the Advisory Opinion from the International Court of Justice regarding the climate obligations of States.
Mr. President, 
This year’s Triennial Conference of Pacific Women, hosted in the Marshall Islands, demonstrated the region’s continued commitment to advancing gender equality with a focus on the health of women and girls, gender-responsive climate justice, and gender-based violence to strengthen and uplift women and girls across the Pacific.
Recent UN action, under the Secretary-General’s peacebuilding fund, is a key step-up to strengthen treatment of the link between climate and security.
Climate impacts pose a grave security challenge alone - but tackling them with core institutions under external stress, coupled with our underlying fragility, risks epic disaster.
For small and vulnerable nations, the United Nations, despite all its faults, remains the only institution which offers us a vital platform to voice our concerns, issues, and at times, seek shelter from the ravages of conflicts and climate change.


  
     1426     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MKD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Enlargement must be tied to the meritocratic Copenhagen criteria and freed from the veto linked to the attempt to revise history and disrespect national and cultural identity.
With the alarming level of greenhouse gas emissions that are rapidly leading to climate change with catastrophic consequences, can we even talk about responsibility, or should we start thinking about survival / ability to live?
The United Nations is the main driver for resolving global security, migration, health, environmental, energy and climate crises, but hardly any of them are fully and justly resolved.
The second pillar of multilateralism is consistent implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and the related Paris Agreement and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.
High on our agenda are climate action and green and just transition, gender equality and fight against discrimination against women and girls, as well as inclusion of young people in decision-making processes.
The more frequent extreme weather phenomena caused by climate change are just a prelude to what kind of future awaits us and our descendants if humanity’s attitude towards nature and the planet does not fundamentally change.


  
     1427     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MLI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Humanitarian crises—driven by war, climate change, and natural disasters—have displaced millions.
Climate change is a genuine threat.
Countries responsible for climate change must **support the Global South’s sustainable development**.


  
     1428     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MLT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

And we know just how much small island nations like ours will be impacted as climate change warms oceans and raises sea levels.
We, small island nations, are amongst the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases, but we are literally the frontline of the climate emergency.
The impact of climate change will be felt by all our citizens.
Climate change must remain at the top of the global agenda.
That’s why Malta has jointly taken the lead in developing the ‘Climate Vulnerability and Resilience Index’ – a practical resource to help small islands identify and prepare for the effects of the changing climate.
As sea levels become an ever greater concern so does the health of our seas and oceans become ever greater a priority.
We have consistently spoken up in the Security Council about the existential threat from rising sea levels.


  
     1429     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MNE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

In addition to the crisis in the Middle East, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, civil war in Sudan, instability in the Horn of Africa, Yemen, Democratic Republic of Congo, Myanmar, Haiti, we are facing a number of other issues, including the climate emergency, growing food insecurity, erosion of democracy and human rights, growing terrorism and violent extremism, cyber threats and backsliding on the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), only contributing to an already alarming global situation.
We commend and support the Secretary General’s New Agenda for Peace, which offers and identifies, indeed, the needed tools and measures for generating a quality response to the ongoing challenges – especially through disarmament, more investments in diplomacy and mediation, mitigation of geopolitical influence on the population, prevention of further fragmentation of global trade rules, effective tackling of the climate change issues, as well as prevention of violence and human rights violations.
The international community must also do significantly more in the fight against climate change, with decisive actions much needed, such as the full implementation of the Paris Agreement and the resolution of the interconnections between the triple planetary crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution are needed while strengthening climate action.
Sustainable development goals and the fight against climate change are fundamentally linked to peace and security and human rights.
Without peace, all other goals – from human rights and gender equality to addressing climate change, water, and energy and food security – will not be achieved.


  
     1430     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MNG_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

This profoundly meaningful work symbolizes the historic moment when countries around the world embraced the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
To sustain peace, combat climate change, protect public health, reduce economic inequality, and establish justice, the international community must seek optimal solutions and foster innovative cooperation that addresses the evolving dynamics of our era.
To accelerate the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, countries around the world are focusing on policies that promote economic diversification, energy and digital transitions, reduce the negative impacts of climate change, enhance adaptive capacity, and increase access to essential social services, particularly in education and health, while also prioritizing employment and food security.
Distinguished delegates,  
 
In the early years of the 21st century, ideological conflicts that divided the world became history, while traditional military threats receded and non-traditional threats such as climate change, pandemics, terrorism, cybercrime, and refugees gained increasing attention.
In particular, global warming and climate change have transcended natural and economic boundaries, exacerbating sensitive social issues and disputes over resources, and triggering migration that bring numerous direct and indirect dangers and risks.
Therefore, we must carefully assess the situation and recognize the need for smart solutions based on the advancements of our era, as well as the implementation of new technologies, and share good practices while collaborating to overcome the challenges posed by climate change.
They proposed numerous creative initiatives to enhance women’s roles and contributions toward achieving Sustainable Development Goals, including economics, environment, climate change, food security, education, sports, culture, and the arts.


  
     1431     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MOZ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Therefore, we encourage all Member States to accelerate the
materialization of the commitments made, including the
reinforcement of mutually beneficial cooperation, to respond
to prevailing challenges, including the fight against poverty,
conflicts, terrorism and climate change.
Furthermore, our country has faced multiple and complex
challenges that include exposure to risks associated with
climate change, such as cyclical cyclones, droughts and floods.


  
     1432     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MRT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our continent continues to struggle with poverty, fragility, unemployment, and weak health and education systems in terms of both quality and inclusiveness—not to mention the spread of terrorism, armed conflicts, and the escalating destructive impacts of climate change.
Fully aware of the adverse environmental and climate-related impacts on our planet—especially the socio-economic and political-security consequences in Africa and the Sahel—we have reduced carbon emissions by 11% and increased the share of renewable energy in our total energy consumption to 50% by 2030.
In this regard, I highly commend the outcomes of COP28, held in the United Arab Emirates at the end of last year, and I hope these environmental gains will be strengthened at COP29, to be hosted this year by Azerbaijan.
We sincerely hope that industrialised countries will honour their emission reduction commitments and fulfil their Paris Agreement pledges.


  
     1433     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MUS_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The climate emergency is one of the most pressing global threats of our time.
Green House Gas emissions from human activities have irrefutably contributed to global warming, sea level rise and coastal erosion.
It is most unfortunate that SIDS, like Mauritius, which have contributed the least to global emissions, are being the most affected.
Our actions need to be guided by the latest scientific insights and informed by the outcomes of the Global Stocktake agreed upon at COP 28, including its roadmap for keeping 1.5°C within reach.
Therefore, an agreement on a fair and ambitious New Collective Quantified Goal on climate should be reached.
As temperatures rise, the very foundation of life for Oceanic States are endangered.
We welcome the recent advisory opinion of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea on Climate Change.
In the fight against climate change, our resolve should be translated into concrete and time bound actions.
One which is commensurate with the urgency and scale of the climate crisis.


  
     1434     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MWI_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the four years that I have been President, I have declared a state of natural disaster every year because of climate change impacts that we cannot solve without multilateral cooperation.
As a result of our refusal to honour climate financing pledges or link them to debt relief, the debt-to-GDP ratios in developing countries like Malawi are growing at an alarming rate, posing a significant threat to global financial stability.


  
     1435     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_MYS_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The countries of the Global South have continued to be marginalised, and remain under-represented on many fronts: global socioeconomic development, climate mitigation efforts, education, health, and infrastructure development.
Innovative and new models of financing for development, that drive sustainability, conservation, climate action, and achievement of SDGs, should be part of new multilateral solutions.
62.
The climate crisis may be the most pressing challenge of our time.
We are witnessing unprecedented levels of warming, extreme weather, and devastating impacts of rising sea levels.
The climate crisis requires global solutions, in the form of climate financing, technology transfer, and capacity building.


  
     1436     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NAM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Namibia is particularly concerned about the impact of climate change.
Changes in ocean temperatures have affected our fish stocks  with potential longterm consequences for our livelihoods, ecosystems, and tourism.
Namibia is working to develop a sustainable energy mix to support its ambitious industrialization agenda and to contribute to the world’s efforts to combat climate change.
We are establishing green industrialization ecosystems, for decarbonizing industries that find it difficult to lower their greenhouse emissions.


  
     1437     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NGA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

From last year's summit, and indeed from previous years, we have carried over the numerous challenges of terrorism, armed conflict, inequality, poverty, racial discrimination, human rights abuses, food crises, hunger, irregular migration, piracy, global pandemics, hyperinflation, nuclear proliferation, grinding debt burden, climate change, and a host of other vexations.
Climate change is a driver of insecurity, which also poses a veritable challenge to sustainable development.
No country is immune from the effects of climate change.
Nigeria remains unwavering in its commitment to SDG 13: Climate Action, including the net zero ambition and transition from fossil fuel energy to clean energy.
As a demonstration of this commitment, I established the Presidential Committee on Climate Action and Green Economy Solutions and appointed a Special Presidential Envoy on Climate Action.
We will redouble our efforts to address the challenges posed by climate change, including the urgent need to transition from fossil fuel energy.
Yet such commitments must be juxtaposed with the principle of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and the relevant provisions of the Paris Climate Agreement back in 2015.
The Paris Agreement provided for developed countries to take the lead in the quest to achieve net zero and to offer support, including finance, to developing countries for the actualisation of the climate change goal.
It is our expectation that this year’s 79th 
Session of the UN General Assembly and the upcoming COP 29 in Azerbaijan this November, will go a step further by providing developing countries, especially African countries, with access to the loss and damage funds, including the 100 billion dollars pledged by developed countries to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change.


  
     1438     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NIC_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are in solidarity with all the Countries and Peoples affected by the bestiality, the brutality that was unleashed and continues to be unleashed against Our Mother Earth and our Resources, generating what is known today as 
Climate Change, which is nothing but the selfish plundering of our Planetary Resources, which has degenerated into a profusion of Disasters of all kinds, which are not Natural and which demand Climate Justice, and which have been and continue to be imposed by the greedy slavers, filibusters and looters of this World, with neither consideration, nor indemnification, nor reparation nor compensation, against those of us with the most to lose.


  
     1439     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NLD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, whose effects are becoming clearer by the day.
Without the UN, there would have been no climate agreements.
We need only look at climate change to see the importance of that.
From flooding to drought: the effects of climate change are impacting people around the world.
Countries where the rising sea level is not just a future threat, but a current reality.
What’s more: all the problems caused by climate change amplify each other.
So climate change is not limited to those countries that are directly affected.
Of course, that means committing to the climate targets of the Paris Agreement, the SDG’s and the measures we agree at COP29.


  
     1440     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NOR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Three decades after the Oslo Accords, more and more states are realising that endlessly waiting for the right moment to negotiate will not work.
In Dubai, we agreed to transition away from fossil fuels, in a just, orderly and equitable manner.


  
     1441     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NPL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I fondly recall your visit to Nepal last year, Mr. Secretary-General, and your message of peace from the sacred birthplace of Gautam Buddha, and the message of climate catastrophe of mountains from the Everest region.
Both people and planet stand on the brink of climate catastrophe.
Mr. President, 
Climate change has emerged as the gravest threat to our planet, people, and prosperity.
We stand as one of the most vulnerable nations to climate change and are ranked as the 20th most disaster-prone country in the world.
Yet, despite these efforts, we continue to bear the brunt of climate change.
In this context, we call for climate justice.
Our mountains play a crucial role in regulating the climate and ecosystem of oceans, with their snow-fed rivers flowing down to the oceans.
Nepal’s Himalayas, as a natural climate stabiliser, help maintain a cooling system in a region situated in the hottest zone of the planet between the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.
Given their significance, it is essential that the mountain agenda should receive due attention in climate negotiations.
Nepal is steadfast in its commitment to the Paris Agreement and aims to achieve net zero target by 2045, five year earlier than global target.
As climate change is a global challenge, it demands global action and collaborative efforts to address its widespread and cascading impacts.
Adequate climate financing including ‘Loss and Damage’ fund is crucial to support climate-resilient measures and infrastructure for adaptation in developing countries not least in LDCs.


  
     1442     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NRU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

There is a risk of failing to seize the opportunity to transform to renewable energy and decarbonize our planet.
We are exploring new frontiers because even as we fight against the effects of climate change, we must also adapt to the reality that is upon us.
When it comes to climate finance, we are too often relegated to the back of the queue.
In our pursuit against climate change, we continue to call on the UNSG to appoint a Special Representative on Climate and Security.
We are pleased to endorse the call for a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty, and we urge countries to back this initiative for a sustainable and equitable future.
We also eagerly await the Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice on Climate Change and will closely follow and support the implementation of the Court’s guidance in the pursuit of climate justice.
My delegation, alongside members from the Group of Friends on Climate and Security, advocated for its inclusion to address the security threats posed by the climate crises.
Calls to Action 
 
Mr President, before I conclude, I call on the following, 
 
To the developed nations, we say: recognize your historical responsibility for emissions and honor your obligations under the Paris Agreement.
Provide the climate finance and technology transfer you have promised.
Support our efforts to transition to renewable energy, to enhance our climate resilience, and to protect our biodiversity.
In line with this year’s theme, we must accelerate our efforts without delay because the climate crisis will not wait for us to get our acts together.


  
     1443     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_NZL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We see multiple, intersecting, and mutually reinforcing crises of conflict, climate change, and increasingly, a crisis of trust in our institutions.


  
     1444     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_OMN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Oman also exerts significant efforts in addressing climate change challenges, reducing emissions, and encouraging investment in renewable energy projects.
Our Net-Zero Carbon Strategy for 2050 is driven by  clean energy projects, green hydrogen initiatives, and nature-based solutions.


  
     1445     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PAK_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Today, we face the most daunting challenges to the world order: Israel’s genocidal war in Gaza; a dangerous conflict in Ukraine; destructive conflicts across Africa and Asia; rising geopolitical tensions; resurging terrorism; increasing poverty; stifling debt; and the mounting impact of climate change.
**Mr. President,**

Beyond conflict, the 21st century has brought a cascade of crises, including the **reversal of development** and the **mounting impact of climate change**.
It is now clear that every summer brings **blistering temperatures** and **new climate disasters**.
Pakistan emits less than **1% of global carbon**, yet pays a **disproportionate price**.
We must uphold the principle: **the polluter pays**.
Pakistan looks forward to the **fulfilment of commitments** made by development partners, including a **new annual goal beyond $100 billion** in **climate finance**, to support SDGs and climate goals.


  
     1446     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PAN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Speaking of lists: Panama is one of the **very few carbon-negative countries** in the world.
That is, we remove more CO₂ from the atmosphere than we emit.


  
     1447     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PER_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution are **interconnected threats** that endanger the survival of current and future generations.

15.
Peru’s high vulnerability to the effects of climate change makes it a **top priority** of our foreign policy.
Alongside other countries, we have **requested an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice** on states’ international obligations regarding climate change.
Aware of the growing frequency and severity of these phenomena due to climate change, my government has adopted a **preventive approach** to disaster risk management, aligned with the Secretary-General’s **“Early Warnings for All”** initiative and the **Sendai Framework**.

18.
We are also updating our **National Climate Change Strategy** to achieve **carbon neutrality by 2050**, and we are promoting a shift to a **low-carbon economy** based on **clean and renewable energy**.

19.
We must increase **international cooperation** while adhering to the principle of **common but differentiated responsibilities** in climate action.

20.
Developed countries must adopt **more ambitious emission reduction targets** and fulfil their **climate finance commitments**, including the mobilisation of at least **$100 billion annually** for developing countries and implementation of the **loss and damage fund** agreed at **COP27**.
It is also urgent to ensure funding for the **Green Climate Fund (GCF)**, which has supported our adaptation and mitigation efforts.
In this era of growing scepticism toward multilateralism, that legacy calls on us to remain active in promoting **effective multilateralism**, which is essential to our joint response to major global challenges—ensuring international peace and security, protecting the environment, mitigating climate change, financing sustainable development, and regulating emerging technologies.


  
     1448     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PHL_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
 
Climate change has affected communities across the world in the most profound, often tragic, ways.
The Philippines’ acute climate vulnerability makes us one of staunchest proponents for strengthening climate and disaster risk resilience.
This Fund will provide critical assistance to nations most vulnerable to climate change impacts.
We consistently call on developed nations to fulfill their commitments under the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement.
We are convinced that legal clarity on the duties and responsibilities of States under international law with respect to environmental protection and climate change, will foster solidarity on global climate action.
We offer constructive solutions across the spectrum of the work of the UN – from human rights, health and humanitarian action to development, disarmament and disaster and climate risk reduction, from peacemaking to peacekeeping to peacebuilding.


  
     1449     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PLW_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

While SIDS contribute less than 1% of global greenhouse gas emissions, we bear the brunt of the climate crisis.
Palau has experienced the unmistakable signs of climate change firsthand.
The ripple effects of climate disasters globally have caused the cost of imported goods to skyrocket, further jeopardizing our food security and economic stability.
The global response to climate change is a matter of life and death.
Through the Paris Agreement and other international frameworks, we have underscored the vulnerabilities of island nations like ours.
One of the most urgent challenges for SIDS is sea-level rise.
In Palau, we are taking steps to relocate critical infrastructure, including our national hospital and schools, to protect our people from rising waters and climate-related disasters.
Palau is committed to reducing carbon emissions and transitioning to renewable energy.
Solar, wind, and ocean energy provide opportunities to reduce reliance on imported fossil fuels and secure a cleaner, more sustainable future.
Our commitment to a sustainable blue economy is reflected in the Unlocking Blue Pacific Prosperity (UBPP) initiative, launched at COP28.
The UBPP unites Pacific Island nations in addressing the dual challenges of climate change and ocean health.
Our priorities will include expanding access to climate finance, strengthening resilience, and promoting a sustainable future for all island nations.
We must unite to confront the existential threat of climate change, protect our oceans, and ensure that no nation—no matter how small—is left behind.
Palau cannot mitigate the climate crisis alone.
We need global cooperation to reduce emissions and safeguard our planet for future generations.


  
     1450     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PNG_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I also extend my gratitude to the UN Secretary General for his strong leadership to mobilise the support of the global community on key issues that require our collective efforts, especially in addressing climate change related issues.
These threats, in my view, are Religious Intolerance, Poverty induced by Climate Change and Geo-political differences and sovereignty  contests over territories and people.
In fact, Sir Michael championed Article 5 of the Paris Agreement into existence in the early 2000 as a reflection of PNG’s strong affinity to the forest, land and sea.
In this regard, my country has been contributing to the global discourse over the last two decades on environment management and climate change.
4 
 
 
Mr. President, The second threat I see facing humanity is Poverty induced by climate change.
The acceleration of climate change, for instance, is a direct result of mankind’s insatiable appetite for resources.
In an attitude of ‘survival of the fittest’, nations and corporations jostle and stampede over each other to harvest resources, causing environmental degradation, deforestation, burning of fossil fuel, and pollution, spiraling our planet into climate catastrophes that will further engender poverty.
Ocean nations like mine continue to live with climate change-induced sea level rise and weather pattern changes which have now become an existential threat.
That is why we welcome the Chair’s summary of the HighLevel Meeting on Sea-Level Rise.
We reaffirm our commitment to the Pacific Islands Forum Declaration on the Continuity of Statehood and the Protection of Persons in the Face of Climate ChangeRelated Sea-Level Rise.
Last month, the Pacific Island Leaders Forum in Tonga officially recognized these climate change manifestations as existential threats to our Pacific people.
We stand united in support of the Vanuatu-led UNGA proposal for the inclusion of sea-level rise as a standalone agenda item in the UN General Assembly and other relevant UN processes.
5    
As a rainforest nation, PNG continues to play a proactive role to progress our commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement by undertaking adaptation and mitigation efforts.
However, accessing of climate finance continues to be a challenge for PNG.
I call for others out there, especially those who have big carbon footprints, to offset these with preservation of our forests.


  
     1451     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PRT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I'm also talking about climate refugees.
Rising temperatures, forest fires (which tragically hit my country recently), droughts and other extreme weather events have forced millions to move.
We understand the vital role of the ocean in the global economy and in combating climate change.
Climate change is the existential threat of our time.
Given the central importance of the climate-ocean-biodiversity nexus, Portugal supported Vanuatu's initiative to request an opinion on the obligations of states with regard to climate change.
We welcome the important opinion of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea of May 2024, which, together with the future opinion of the International Court of Justice, will strengthen the legal framework on climate change.
The International Law Commission's Study Group on sea level rise, co-chaired by a Portuguese woman, has been doing important work in this area.
Portugal remains committed to investing in renewable energies and phasing out fossil fuels.
An example of this is the agreements signed by Portugal with Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe to transform debt into climate investment, thus supporting the energy transition.


  
     1452     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_PRY_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Armed conflicts; tensions in every corner of our globe; a crisis of multilateral institutions and the international system; an assault on democratic values from the twin threats of populism and authoritarianism; the dangers of cyberwarfare and the irresponsible application of artificial intelligence; the brutal inequity in wealth distribution; and climate change threatening our very existence—these are but a few of the immense problems we face.
Natural Resources and Climate Change

Paraguay is a country blessed with abundant natural resources, valuable human capital, and a clear focus on creating value chains that promote a green economy based on the development of sustainable technologies.
Hydroelectric power generation is not just a national project, but a joint initiative with our neighbours—an initiative that seeks to be central to the achievement of a more developed, sustainable, and emission-free world.


  
     1453     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ROU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Distinguished audience, 
The impact of climate change is a growing threat to our security and its consequences are already obvious.
We need to accelerate our work to keep the 1.5℃ target alive.
And, since climate change is a threat multiplier, Romania supports an integrated approach to the climate and security nexus within the United Nations system.


  
     1454     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_RWA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The package represents a crucial step towards creating a more
equitable and resilient global financial system, particularly as
developing nations continue to grapple with the impacts of climate

change and widening inequality.
However, this feat cannot be achieved without the adequate tools to
both finance the decarbonisation of our economies and mitigate the

effects of climate change.
Building resilient economies in the Global South is an urgent priority,
which goes hand-in-hand with increased solidarity from those who are

most responsible for carbon pollution.
The pay-to-pollute model is not a viable option, solidarity and

investment are.
Consequently, advanced economies should reduce their emissions

faster and invest more in African autonomous transition.
Reforming both the financial institutions and the
UNSC is vital to ensure fair representation, foster trust among nations,
and effectively respond to the pressing challenges of the modern era,

such as economic instability, climate change, and conflict.


  
     1455     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SAU_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

In the energy sector, the Kingdom balances **energy security**, **affordability**, and **climate action**.
We adopt a **comprehensive, pragmatic, and equitable approach to the energy transition**, aiming to achieve the goals of the **UNFCCC** and the **Paris Agreement**, using all technologies to address **greenhouse gas emissions**, including oil and gas, which will remain central to the **global energy mix** for decades.
---

The Kingdom possesses advanced technology that makes it one of the **lowest emitters of carbon and methane** in oil and gas operations, and continues to develop **low-emission energy products**.
We are building a **carbon capture, transport, and storage hub** in Jubail Industrial City with a capacity of **9 million tonnes annually by 2027**, and an ultimate capacity of **44 million tonnes annually by 2035**.
---

We support the **Sustainable Development Goals** and **international cooperation** to tackle climate change.
At the **Saudi-African Summit in Riyadh**, we announced a **$50 billion fund** to support these efforts and launched major initiatives based on the **circular carbon economy**, such as the **Saudi Green Initiative** and the **Middle East Green Initiative**.
We are also investing in **renewables**, **clean hydrogen production**, and other initiatives to **reduce carbon intensity**, protect biodiversity, and preserve water and marine resources.


  
     1456     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SDN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Sudan believes in and supports the role of the United Nations and endorses initiatives aimed at reforming and developing its institutions, upholding human rights, and confronting the challenges of climate change and ethnically or ideologically motivated terrorism.


  
     1457     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SEN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Conflicts are spreading, inequalities are deepening, and climate crises are exacerbating the vulnerability of millions of people worldwide.
**Thirdly**, we must act decisively to combat climate change, in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
Industrialised countries—historical contributors to massive greenhouse gas emissions—must step up their efforts to finance a just and equitable energy transition, one that does not penalise developing countries.


  
     1458     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SGP_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

On almost every issue confronting the world – from peace and security to climate change, from the ocean to outer space, and from poverty to food insecurity, a reformed UN is absolutely essential for global solutions.
UNCLOS also provides an essential foundation for coordinating our efforts on issues such as sea-level rise, plastic pollution, the loss of biodiversity, and ocean acidification.
We need to accelerate our collective efforts in combating climate change.
As a small island state, Singapore is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, and especially sea-level rise.
Although our share of global emissions is actually very small, we remain fully committed to peaking our emissions before 2030 and to achieving net-zero by 2050.
We launched a new technical assistance package at SIDS4, called “SIDS of Change”, which covers priority areas including blue carbon.


  
     1459     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SLB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The growing economic inequality between states, pronouncement of climate emergencies around the world, poverty, hunger, disease, social injustices and racism, hegemonic interests, militarization and nuclear posturing is dividing the world and creating tensions and fear.
The rich and powerful are spending some two point four trillion dollars on arms that should be invested in the 2030 Agenda and fighting the biggest enemy of humanity, which is climate change.
Climate Change  
 
Mr. President,   
 
Climate change is no longer a threat but a crisis.
Solomon Islands is located in a hotspot where the impact of climate change is three times the global average.
Science tells us we are on a 2.5 degrees Celsius trajectory.
The Paris Agreement is failing humanity.
The voluntary approach under the Paris Agreement has failed miserably.
The changing narrative on climate change is unacceptable.
Diversion away from talking about ambitious climate action, survival or the construction of safe Islands is replaced by discussion on sinking and migration.
We need to give hope to our people on the frontline of climate change..
The G20 is responsible for 80% of global emissions, the group must take a stronger leadership role in the fight against climate change.


  
     1460     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SLE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The unmanageable debt crisis, lack of capital flows, the devastating impacts of climate change and lack of climate 
finance, conflicts, and political instability around the world are increasing the odds of developing countries not achieving the 
SDGs.
IDA’s affordable, concessional finance allows Africa’s leaders to develop our economies, enhance education and healthcare, deal with the increasing effects of climate change, and expand electricity and digital access — without becoming buried in unsustainable debt.


  
     1461     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SMR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Furthermore, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda has been slowed down by an international context of uncertainty, a combined planetary crisis of climate change, pollution, and biodiversity loss, aggravated by the shocks of war, destabilisation and increased fragility.
We also support the reaffirmation of the centrality of the 2030 Agenda, of human rights and gender equality, and of urgent actions to protect global climate.
Mr. President,  
San Marino believes it is essential to strengthen the global response to the climate emergency.
The existential threat caused by the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution should give to all of us a sense of urgency and priority in tackling this challenge.
We support the commitments taken at COP28 last December, which include the imperative of transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems in a just, orderly and equitable manner, tripling renewable energy capacity globally and doubling energy efficiency by 2030 in line with 1.5-degree pathways.
San Marino is fully committed to decarbonising the global economy by 2050 and to halting and reversing biodiversity loss by 2030 and recognize the need to halt pollution, which causes the death of 9 million people annually.


  
     1462     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SOM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,  
This Session of the General Assembly convenes amid a rising number of global challenges — from escalating transnational conflicts and humanitarian crises to the existential threats of climate change and growing economic inequalities.
Mr. President,  
Climate change is a global crisis that touches every life and every community, but nowhere is its impact more deeply felt than in vulnerable nations like Somalia.
We endure relentless droughts, devastating floods, and rising temperatures that tear apart our communities and threaten our very survival.
While the recent COP28 conference made important strides with the creation of a Loss and Damage Fund and commitments to expand renewable energy, there remains a significant challenge: accessing these funds.


  
     1463     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SSD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,  
In the last 70 years, half a billion people in Africa alone have been affected by the impacts of climate change.
Therefore, there is a need to scale up adaptation action and support to ensure an adequate response in the context of the climate crisis.
This is attributed to the conflict, economic crises in the country, and consequences of climate change, resulting in a fragile health system.


  
     1464     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_STP_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

As a small island state, my country is on the front line of the consequences of climate change, which represents the greatest existential threat to our populations.
Although we contribute only a minuscule share of global greenhouse gas emissions, we are among those who suffer the most from their effects.
Rising sea levels, more frequent and intense storms, coastal erosion, and biodiversity loss threaten not only our livelihoods but our very existence.
It is therefore imperative that the international community strengthens its commitments to the Paris Agreement and ensures that the voices of the most affected nations, like ours, are heard and integrated into concrete actions.
The upcoming COP29 on Climate Change, to be held in November in Baku (Azerbaijan), will be a crucial opportunity to reaffirm our collective commitment to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
We need concrete and immediate action to mitigate the impacts of the climate crisis.
We urge the largest emitters to fulfil their historical and moral obligations by drastically reducing their emissions and honouring the climate finance commitments made to developing countries, who are bearing the brunt of a crisis they did not cause.
We are convinced that through dialogue and cooperation, we will be able to address the greatest challenges of our time—from climate change to poverty, and including the promotion of human rights and equity.


  
     1465     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SUR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The Multidimensional Vulnerability Index (MVI), offers a comprehensive, and inclusive framework, that goes, beyond traditional metrics,
•  to capture, the true complexity, of the vulnerabilities, of small island developing, and low-lying coastal states.
•  Mr. President, 2024 statistics, reveal that progress, in the area, of climate action, is inadequate,
•  with global, greenhouse gas emissions, still rising, despite the need, for reductions.
•  Climate action, can no longer, be postponed, nor ignored.
•  Mr. President, Suriname is committed, to the Paris Agreement.
•  Suriname has also, submitted ambitious, nationally determined, contributions,
•  and has recently, started the process, of carbon credit trading.
•  Suriname aims, to remain, a carbon negative country, with a high level, of biodiversity, and more than, 90% forest coverage.
•  Carbon negative, and carbon neutral countries, must be supported, for maintaining that status.
We are in favor, of a just transition, to a carbon-less economy, over the coming decades,
•  but we also expect, to be allowed, to develop, our natural resources,
•  in an environmentally, friendly and balanced manner, in compliance, with international standards, and practices.
In fact, we have already, embarked, on such a development path,
•  by introducing, more renewables, to our energy grid, utilizing, technological innovations,
•  to reduce, our carbon footprint, even further.
•  Despite these activities, Suriname is among, the three carbon, negative countries in the world.
•  At the same time, Suriname is among, the seven most, vulnerable countries, with respect, to the effects, of rising sea levels.
•  Mr. President,
•  not only, have the international pledges, for climate financing, not materialized, in the way pledged,
•  but access, to the available resources, is an enormous challenge.
•  We need to foster, collaboration, and strengthen partnerships,
•  to address, the long-term global issues, as climate change, social inequality,
•  and access, to affordable health care, and quality education for all.


  
     1466     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SVK_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The global debate on climate change is a good example proving we can do this.
The denying of climate change and its evidence by renowned scientific teams around the world — quite common until recently — is in the face of increasingly destructive climate conditions and disasters now obscure even in the most marginal opinion groups.
Our emissions are already beyond the imaginary line of our Paris Commitments, before which we could still significantly slow down what we humanity have caused through our activities.
Let's invest part of our personal and political activity into what is already happening with our climate.
Mitigating the consequences of hurricanes, floods and extinguishing fires both figuratively and unfortunately also literally — is today's urgent climate agenda.
Here along with the climate change mitigation — I see a huge area of action for the UN and its specialized agencies too.
I am proud that Slovakia belongs — not only in Europe but also globally — to the leaders in compliance with joint climate commitments.


  
     1467     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SVN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

In these times of wars, climate catastrophes, increasing inequalities and deepening polarization, it was a rare flicker of unity.
3. Let me now turn to another pressing issue, the Climate 
Crisis.
The impact of climate change is mostly felt on the lifeline for people and nature – water.
The partnership would boost our common preparedness and ensure that everyone on Earth is protected from hazardous weather, water, or climate events through life-saving early warning systems.


  
     1468     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SWE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We are gathered while we are failing at our collective goal of maintaining international peace and security, of saving future generations from the horrors of war and from the disastrous consequences of underdevelopment and climate change.
Sweden aims to become climate-neutral by 2045, at the latest.
As early movers, we want to show that it’s possible to reduce emissions while maintaining economic growth.
At the same time, global ambitions on climate action and climate financing must be raised.
Sweden also supports the ongoing reform processes in multilateral development banks to increase the effectiveness and scale of financing to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and implement the Paris Agreement.


  
     1469     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SWZ_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We must double our efforts to bridge the gaps in development, combat poverty and inequality, and address the climate crisis.
However, as a small, middle-income country, we face unique challenges, including limited access to international financing, vulnerability to climate change, and economic shocks.
Furthermore, the ongoing threat of pandemics, such as COVID-19, and emerging health threats, such as the MPox, exacerbated by climate change, underscore the need for adequate preparedness and resilient health systems.
Climate Action and Environmental Sustainability 
Mr President, climate change poses an existential threat to our future.
We have developed a comprehensive strategy to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change, investing in renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, and disaster risk reduction.
We call upon developed nations to honour their commitments to climate finance and technology transfer.


  
     1470     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SYC_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Challenges affecting the core of people’s lives and equally 
requiring solutions with people at their centre:  
 
The climate crisis;
The consideration by the Council of critical issues such as sea-level rise brought by Malta last year, and the broader climate-security nexus, has proven that it is capable of reflecting new realities.
Mr. President, 
Climate change remains the foremost challenge facing humanity, and failure to address its effects will devastate current and future generations.
We are on the front lines of the climate crisis, which poses irreversible threats to our people, our economy, and our way of life.
Rising sea levels, extreme weather events, and the degradation of our oceans are stark reminders of the urgent need for global action on climate change.
We have all made commitments, pledges and promises to achieve large-scale reductions of emissions to keep the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees.
We simply do not have the means to cope with the disastrous effects of climate change.
The pledges made following COP28 should not be mere attempts to pacify us who have been calling for remediation.
We hope to take it as a token of ongoing commitment and continued 
action, given the expected rise in costs of dealing with climate change.
The obligations outlined in the Paris Agreement are the lifelines that give us a chance if all States did their utmost to adhere to them.
Our reliance on fossil fuels is unsustainable and detrimental.
Seychelles’   focus   remains   on  nature-based solutions to combat climate change while ensuring 
economic  sustainability  and   environmental preservation.


  
     1471     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_SYR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
As this session of the General Assembly is taking place, tensions internationally have reached a boiling point, and efforts to maintain international peace and security are confronted with real challenges and threats: clashes are intensifying, crises are multiplying, conflicts are escalating, chaos is spreading, terrorism is gaining ground, the global economy is faltering, poverty rates are rising, climate change is accelerating, and development indicators are lagging.
Syria expresses its support and solidarity with Arab countries, especially those facing challenging circumstances resulting from foreign interference, natural events, or climate change.


  
     1472     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TCD_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Chad, like many African countries, finds itself at a crossroads of multiple challenges, particularly climate change, which threatens our food security.
We therefore call on the international community to honour its commitments on climate finance and justice, as well as the transfer of green technologies.
Climate change also represents a major global challenge, with devastating consequences in vulnerable regions such as the Sahel.

21.


  
     1473     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TGO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

This is especially true in our efforts to adapt to and build resilience against climate change.
Africa is one of the regions most vulnerable to the effects of climate change, even though we contribute the least to greenhouse gas emissions.
The harmful effects of climate change in Africa—in terms of food security and migratory consequences—can no longer be underestimated.
We all know that development, climate transition, and security must be addressed multilaterally.


  
     1474     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_THA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

When the United Nations was founded seven decades ago, we did not envision challenges from technological disruptions, pandemics and climate crisis.
Moreover, Thailand’s aspiration to become a member of BRICS and OECD is driven by our desire to build bridges in promoting North-South development cooperation, which is also critical in addressing urgent challenges, such as climate change.
Indeed, Thailand is among the top ten countries most affected by climate change.
We therefore advocate a balanced and equal emphasis on both mitigation and adaptation for climate action.
To achieve concrete results, we must scale up climate finance.
Climate disasters have taught us that failure to address this matter will delay the achievement of the SDGs and have widespread impact on human rights and human security.


  
     1475     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TJK_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The controversial geopolitical processes, rapid weaponization, escalation
of the “cold war’, armed conflicts, aftermath of climate change and other
global jeopardies and threats will undoubtedly give rise to the long-term
negative consequences.
Challenges include security turmoil, economic and financial crises,
unprecedented warming due to climate change and loss of biodiversity, as
well as an outbreak of contagious diseases.
Your Excellencies,
Distinguished participants,

In the backdrop of climate change impacts, the international community
needs to work on collective approaches and initiatives in the proper use
of natural resources and the relentless activities of various fields of
human life.
Being 93% of its territory covered by mountains, Tajikistan is also
vulnerable to climate change due to the frequent occurrence of natural
disasters.
Climate change is causing the accelerated melting of glaciers and the
reduction of the water volume of rivers in different parts of the world,
including Central Asia.
Our country has adopted the National Strategy for Adaptation to Climate
Change 2030 based on its international obligations, including provisions
of aris Agreement.
Evidently, one of the ways to successfully mitigate the problems related
to climate change is the development of “green economy’, which in turn
calls for development of “green energy’.
Today, finding solutions to the daily issues of adaptation to climate
change and reducing the severity of its negative consequences is
considered one of the top priorities for the international community.


  
     1476     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TKM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

For the 79th session, Turkmenistan has decided to follow four priorities, which are:  
-     peace and security; 
-     sustainable development; - climate change;  - humanitarian issues.
In addressing the global climate agenda, Turkmenistan will be focusing on protection of the environment in Central Asia and Caspian Sea region.
As a concrete step, in cooperation with the UN, our country is promoting the establishment of specialized structure – the Regional Center for Climate-Related Technologies.
Therefore, Turkmenistan appeals to the UN, its relevant agencies, such as UNEP and UNDP, financial institutions, environmental funds, primarily Global Environmental Facility, Green Climate Fund and other structures, urging them to move towards systematic and targeted cooperation with the Caspian states to combat the sea's shallowing, destruction of its ecological balance, reduction of bio-diversity, and other ecological and climate issues affecting the Caspian Sea.


  
     1477     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TLS_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Like many other countries, Timor-Leste is grappling with climate change and unsustainable activities in the ocean.
The impact of climate change on vulnerable nations 
 
Moreover, we are trapped in international financial systems that place us disadvantaged, burdening us with conditional aid, financial assistance, and debt.
In his “New Agenda for Peace”, he also notes that the unequal suffering caused by the effects of climate change is among the greatest injustices in this world.


  
     1478     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TON_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

At a time of escalating conflicts, near-conflict situations on the horizon, all too often triggered by political instability, economic disparities, social tensions and the security threats posed by climate change, we must rally around this goal.
We must include non-traditional security issues like climate change, in its agenda.
Climate change, escalating inequalities, and persistent conflicts are compounding challenges, leaving many countries struggling to meet even the most fundamental goals.
Mr. President, 
 
Decade after decade, year after year, we present to this esteemed body the existential threat that climate change poses to the Pacific, including Tonga.
Climate change is the single greatest threat to the survival and prosperity of our Blue Pacific region.
Once again, we urge the international community to promptly and dramatically act to restrict global warming to 1.5°C.
Industrialized nations must strengthen their emissions reduction commitments.
We must ensure that climate finance is speedily and easily accessible to Pacific Island nations.
Let there be no doubt, we are teetering on the brink of a climate catastrophe.
While in Tonga, the UN Secretary-General issued a global SOS (Save our Seas), warning of rising sea levels.
The World Meteorological Organization echoed this urgent message, launching the ‘State of the Climate in the South-West Pacific 2023’ report.
The report confirms that 2023 was the warmest year on record.
The scientific consensus is irrefutable—our climate is changing at an unprecedented rate, with devastating consequences.
Mr. President, 
 
The most alarming aspect of the crisis is the unprecedented rise in sea levels.
The WMO report confirms that sea-level rise in the South-West Pacific is significantly exceeding the global average.
In some parts of the Pacific, sea levels have risen by 10 to 15 centimeters in the past 30 years—more than double the global average.
Without bold and coordinated global action to expedite assistance to the Pacific and its most vulnerable inhabitants, Tonga and other Pacific countries can expect sea levels to double by mid-century.
Rising sea levels are eroding coastlines, swallowing entire islands, and forcing families to abandon their ancestral homes.
We issued a strong call for including sea-level rise as a standalone and permanent agenda item in the UNGA and other relevant UN processes.
Mr President, 
 
Twelve Pacific countries have signed up to the Agreement on Marine Biodiversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction (BBNJ) further affirming the priority placed on the need to protect the ocean, promote equity and fairness, tackle environmental degradation, fight climate change and prevent biodiversity loss in the high seas.
Mr President, 
 
The upcoming COP29 presents a critical opportunity to operationalize the Loss and Damage Fund, transforming and honoring of pledges into tangible support for vulnerable nations.
As I mentioned earlier, the severe and irreversible threats posed by climate changerelated sea-level rise will disproportionately impact the lives, livelihoods, food security, ecosystems, and well-being of our people.
For example, the 2023 Declaration on the Continuity of Statehood and Protection of Persons amidst sea-level rise, and the 2021 Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones against climate impacts.
We have also developed and endorsed the Pacific Regional Framework on Climate Mobility and introduced the Framework for Resilient Development in the Pacific; the latter is the world's first regional framework linking climate change and disaster risk.
We commend the United Nations for addressing this critical issue and welcome the high-level plenary meeting on ‘Addressing the threats posed by sea-level rise.’
The Declaration commits to protecting persons affected by climate change, ensuring that human rights, political status, cultural heritage, identity, and dignity are upheld.
It is NOW that our Forum Islands countries urgently require timely, predictable, and scaled-up access to climate finance to protect our communities.
Tonga is proud to announce the establishment of the Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF), a Pacific-led, member-owned, and managed climate and disaster resilience financing facility.
We again urge multilateral climate funds, such as the Green Climate Fund and Adaptation Fund, to establish dedicated climate finance access windows, tailored to the conditions and needs of vulnerable countries like the Pacific Small Island Developing States.
This includes three substantive global policy agendas—redefining eligibility for development resources, improving access to climate finance, and creating long-term debt sustainability.
Our Blue Pacific region will focus on improving climate-resilient healthcare and education infrastructures and digital platforms to mitigate risks, manage climate-sensitive diseases and non-communicable diseases (NCDs) effectively, and ensure continuity and equity in learning across our Blue Pacific region.
A healthy ocean will aid in our fight against climate change.
Our goal is to enhance national resilience by creating stronger platforms to tackle natural disasters and address the persistent issues brought about by climate change.


  
     1479     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TTO_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Further, the alarm bells on the climate crisis have long been sounded, and yet we race toward a point of no return.
Mr. President, 
We all acknowledge the adverse effects of climate change.
Effective climate finance mechanisms are essential for the provision of accessible, adequate, and predictable funding, and this requires the operationalization and capitalization of the loss and damage fund.
Climate finance goes well beyond project funding; it is an investment in the resilience and sustainability of the most vulnerable nations.
The future beckons, a future in which SIDS have the capacity and resources to build infrastructure that can withstand severe climate events.


  
     1480     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TUN_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

This requires unified and responsible assessment of the structural causes behind the failures of the current international system to deal with escalating conflicts, extremism, organised crime, and worsening climate disasters that threaten the very survival of millions.
---

Tunisia stresses the urgent need for developed countries to fulfil their commitments to fund development, support climate action, fight poverty, and build resilience and sustainability in developing countries.
---

**Mr President,**

The growing phenomenon of **irregular migration** in many parts of the world, especially in the Mediterranean basin, reflects the failure of global governance and the lack of political will to address the root causes of underdevelopment, climate change, and conflict.
For **Africa**, which is most affected by climate change, global crises, terrorism, and instability, we call for intensified support to overcome crises and achieve peace and sustainable development.


  
     1481     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TUR_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I approach the climate change issue from that same perspective.
No country can tackle emission reductions and climate change adaptation alone.
I sincerely believe that the COP29 Climate Summit, in Baku, will contribute to the solution of these issues.


  
     1482     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TUV_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

For Tuvalu, a purely import oriented economy, our economic fragility is further compounded by poor natural endowment, geographical isolation from major markets and environmental vulnerability to climatic crisis.
We are heartened by the Pact’s call for a bold and comprehensive outcome document on addressing climate change at the upcoming COP29 in 
Azerbaijan.
While climate change affects every nation, its impacts are disproportionately felt more by small island developing states like Tuvalu.
Despite our insignificant contribution to climate change we face the most severe consequences when climate-induced disasters do occur.
We therefore urge all member states to honor their commitments to increase support for climate finance and technology transfer to help nations like Tuvalu develop and enhance their adaptative resilience. 
29.
The science is very clear - atmospheric temperatures continue to rise due to the increasing emissions of greenhouse gases from burning fossil fuels.
Therefore, phasing out fossil fuels is crucial to global efforts to reduce carbon emissions and curb global warming.
Towards that objective, Tuvalu and several other likeminded nations are leading the promotion for the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty (FFNPT) Initiative. 
32.
The initiative is to garner international support on a binding treaty arrangement that regulates and limits the use of fossil fuel with the ultimate objective of total phase out.
Climate change-induced sea-level rise is and will always be a top priority for Tuvalu.
Sea level rise is not only a top development priority but also a top survivability priority for Tuvalu.
The Pacific Ocean that used to define would soon engulf us and determine our future existence, if sea level rise is not halted and the Tuvalu coastlines are not suitably fortified and reinforced.
Sea level rise is a global and a multi-dimensional phenomenon that requires immediate global actions.  
39.
For Tuvalu, sea-level rise poses the greatest existential threat to our economies, to our culture and heritage and to the land that nourished our ancestors for centuries.
Current predictions on the rate of sea level rise are frighteningly disturbing.
The predictions do not account for severe climatic conditions like cyclones and hurricanes which would exponentially accelerate the reaching of those thresholds.
Tuvalu, therefore, commend the President for the timely and successful organization of the high-level meeting on sea level rise on Wednesday.
Tuvalu is heartened by the commitment of all member states to strengthen international cooperation and partnerships for more comprehensive and effective responses to sea-level rise.
The Declaration, in my considered view must be a strong pronouncement in support of the expectations of the 1 billion people affected by sea level rise.  
49.
And to affirm that statehood cannot be challenged under any circumstances of sea-level rise.
Finally, the Declaration shall underscore the importance of knowledge, data and science to anticipate and plan for the impacts of sea-level rise.
I reiterate the commitment of Tuvalu to address the effects of climate change through identified science-based transformative adaptive solutions.
These solutions are designed to reclaim and elevate land, enhance our resilience against sea level rise, and ensure our sovereign right to our land and cultural identity are safe and protected for our future generation.
I acknowledge the efforts of the Pacific people in addressing the pressing issue of sea-level rise.
The Pacific Leaders in their annual meeting in Tonga last month reiterated the importance of the 2021 Declaration on maritime boundaries preservation and the 2023 Declaration on Statehood Continuity and Climate Change-related Sea-Level Rise Protection.
The Pacific Leaders also called for sea level rise to be a standalone agenda item in the UNGA and other related UN processes like the COP of the UNFCCC.
Furthermore, in 2021, Tuvalu, in collaboration with Antigua and Barbuda, established the Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law (COSIS).
The said Commission successfully secured in May this year an advisory opinion from the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), which clarifies that greenhouse gas emissions pollute the marine environment, and that States have the legal responsibilities to take all necessary measures to prevent, reduce and control them.
The science on climate change is comprehensive and clear that the climate is changing and is significantly impacting small islands through rising sea levels.
Nationalized scientific data and information has allowed my government to create a 3D model that specifically demonstrate the impacts of climate change and sea level rise in Tuvalu.
I must admit, it is alarming and disturbing to see how quickly Tuvalu’s entire land territory would be engulfed by rising seas as greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase.
The Treaty prioritizes three key areas namely climate cooperation; mobility with dignity; and shared security. 
74.
For the first time also, another country (Australia) is legally committed to recognize the permanency of the future statehood and sovereignty of Tuvalu despite the impacts of climate change, particularly sea level rise.
ABAS addresses the unique challenges faced by small island developing states through a multifaceted approach that include climate action, economic diversification, and social development.
The impacts of climate change on fish stocks migration and declining marine resources together with illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU Fishing), and marine pollution pose a major challenge to Tuvalu’s progress towards sustainable economic development.  
85.
As one of the last remaining Pacific Island countries in the LDC category Tuvalu is exceptionally vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and rising sea levels.
Even, the Committee for Development Policy has recognized that Tuvalu's vulnerability to climate change is not only severe but permanent. 
92.
For this reason, Tuvalu applauds the newly developed multi-dimensional vulnerability index that could complement the traditional gross national income indicator, as the basis for development and climate finance access.
Tuvalu calls on the global community to rally behind the Pact for the Future and to build a more equitable global system where no nation and no community is left behind, particularly those frontline nations to the devastative impacts of climate change and climate changed-induced sea level rise, like my country Tuvalu.


  
     1483     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_TZA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President, 
The participation in the Seventy-Ninth General Assembly has been a unique opportunity for us to share perspectives regarding the pledges and commitments made for addressing global challenges such as pandemics, extreme poverty, climate change and conflicts.
Climate change, marked by extreme weather patterns like torrential rains and droughts, has deteriorated health issues and strained infrastructure.
Urgent actions and global solidarity are needed to overcome barriers such as economic imbalances, climate change, conflicts, and gender inequality.
In the face of global health threats, characterized by pandemics such a Covid 19 and currently M-Pox, ever intensifying geopolitical tensions and the growing impacts of climate change, the saying that no one is safe until everyone is safe truly gathers meaning.
Climate Change 
Mr. President, 
Tanzania, like many other developing countries, is highly vulnerable to droughts, floods, desertification and effects of sea level rise.
It is estimated that the sea level will rise by 41 cm by 2080.
While the sea level rise cannot be reversed, Tanzania is taking several adaptation and mitigation measures, including the restoration and plantation of mangroves, enhancement of coastal infrastructure, and promotion of eco-tourism and aquaculture.
It is imperative therefore that we must invest more in climate finance to help recover economies already suffering from these effects and to enhance access to funding for loss and damage in the hardest-hit countries.
Embracing Clean Energy Mr. President, 
As we prepare for COP 29 in Baku, Azerbaijan, it is worth remembering that globally, an estimated 2.4 billion people are still using polluting fuels for cooking.
This contributes to health problems, food insecurity, gender inequality, and environmental damage, including millions of premature deaths, limited access to education and employment for women and children, and increased greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation.


  
     1484     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_UGA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

We call on increased collaboration by the international community to eliminate or reduce the incidence of conflicts caused by factors such as inequality, climate change, pandemics, new technologies, trans-national organized crime and terrorism.
Mr. President, 
Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges to the pursuit of sustainable development.
Uganda calls on developed countries to provide the necessary financial, technological as well as capacity building to support developing countries to effectively address climate change.
We demand for climate justice, recognizing that richer countries, having historically profited from highemission activities for the development of their economies and bear a greater obligation to lead in mitigating these impacts.
Therefore, the high-income countries should reduce their emissions and equally support developing countries in their gradual transition to low-emission development pathways, without using the environment as a political and economic tool to block or slow down their development.
We emphasize that climate finance should be additional to official development assistance.
These include, inter-alia, Fourth international conference for the Small Island Developing States, Third UN Conference on the Land-locked Developing Countries; Summit of the Future; Preparations for the 4th Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development; 2024 UN Climate Change Conference (COP29), all of which demand that we remain even more united and steadfast in promoting the interests of developing Countries.
Scaling up action to address climate change and biodiversity loss;


  
     1485     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_USA_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

I recognize the challenges from Ukraine to Gaza to Sudan and beyond: war,
hunger, terrorism, brutality, record displacement of people, a climate crisis,
democracy at risk, strains within our societies, the promise of artificial

intelligence and its significant risks.
My country made the largest investment

in climate and clean energy ever, anywhere in history.
Will we
take on global challenges like climate change, hunger, and disease?
They need to be protected from the ravages of
climate change, hunger, and disease.
We’ve taken the most ambitious climate actions in history.
We’ve moved to
rejoin the Paris Agreement on day one.
And today, my country is finally on
track to cut emissions in half by 2030, on track to honor my pledge to

quadruple climate financing to developing nations with $11 billion thus far

this year.


  
     1486     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_UZB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Wars and conflicts, triple planetary climate crisis, worsening of the world economy and technological gap are affecting all countries without exception.
Last year was one of the hottest in the history of meteorological observations.
This once again proves the growing urgency of the climate change problem.
Central Asia is among the most exposed and vulnerable regions of the world to climate change.
The air temperature in Central Asia is rising faster than the global average.
Central Asian countries are unified on climate action.
We also developed a Regional Climate Change Adaptation Strategy and established a Climate Council to create a national climate change program.


  
     1487     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_VAT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The effects of climate change are borne by those in the most vulnerable situations.
It is indeed the poorest countries, who contribute the least to climate change, but are those who carry the greatest burden of its effects, including the rising of sea-levels.
The care for 
  
our common home necessitates that the commitments taken over the years to combat climate change are translated into action.
Christians are being targeted, while climate change and armed attacks are worsening the food crisis and causing children to drop out of school.


  
     1488     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_VCT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Importantly, the countries of the developed world, the major historic, and contemporary emitters of greenhouse gases, have failed and/or refused to keep their solemn commitments of restricting the global temperature at below 1.5 degrees Celsius, above pre-industrial levels.
On the matter of the financing of climate change, the developed countries, which have the means and the major historic responsibility to contain this existential threat, have been parsimonious and less than responsible, in practice.
Even today, the cynicism and double-speak of several major developed countries is breathtaking in response to the quest of most of the global community to transform the international financial institutions as fit-for-purpose in today’s world, and for responsible, reasonable alterations in the actual modalities of climate change financing.
The recovery and reconstruction after every natural disaster increase sharply our debt burden; countries like St. Vincent and the Grenadines have contributed little or nothing to global warming and man-made climate change, yet we suffer largely alone on the frontlines.
St. Vincent and the Grenadines continues to urge that Taiwan be allowed to participate fully in the specialized agencies of the United Nations, including those pertaining to health, air and sea transport, climate change, disaster preparedness, and global policy.


  
     1489     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_VNM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Non-traditional security challenges, such as climate change, extreme weather events, natural disasters, epidemics, resource depletion, aging, etc. are becoming increasingly severe, hindering our efforts for development.
Super typhoon Yagi, which devastatingly ravaged Viet Nam and other countries in the region, serves as a stark warning of the severe impact that natural disasters and climate change can have on sustainable development for all.
Defense expenditure has reached a record USD 2.4 trillion in 2023, yet we struggle to pool USD 100 billion for climate action.


  
     1490     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_VUT_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our collective failures in addressing climate change, international development financing, and global peacebuilding continue to harm the development of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) like Vanuatu.
While industrialised nations advance their economies, SIDS suffer the brunt of climate change, which jeopardises our development ambitions.
If the current trajectory of carbon emissions continues, Vanuatu’s recently achieved developing country status will be unsustainable.
The increasing intensity and frequency of climate disasters threaten our livelihoods and erase years of development progress, leaving the most vulnerable even further behind.
The latest IPCC report paints a bleak picture of our planet’s future.
Yet, despite this stark warning, the global response to climate change remains inadequate, putting sustainable development and poverty eradication efforts at risk.
The report warns we may breach a dangerous temperature threshold within the next decade.
** to clarify states’ legal obligations regarding climate change—an initiative that has garnered unprecedented global attention.
The **91 written submissions** from states and organisations to the ICJ, in response to our consensus resolution last year, demonstrate the crucial importance of legal clarity on states’ responsibilities and accountability regarding climate action.
It is about clarifying the existing rules of international law and their implications for all nations—so we can establish a strong foundation for climate action and climate justice based on shared responsibility and accountability.
I urge all UN Member States, especially other climate-vulnerable nations, to participate in these historic ICJ hearings, which begin on **2 December 2024**.
Your voices are essential to help the Court fully understand the impact of climate change on the most affected populations and to demonstrate our shared commitment to justice, human rights, and a more sustainable future.
---

**Mr President – LDC Graduation and Climate Change**  
Vanuatu’s economy performed well while it held the **Least Developed Country (LDC)** status.
Vanuatu and other small island economies are battling the onslaught of climate-induced disasters.
While we continue efforts to build resilience and adapt to climate change, we often lose ground.
As a frontline nation facing frequent and worsening climate disasters, Vanuatu calls for a **new climate finance goal** that speeds up the transition away from fossil fuels, strengthens resilience, and realistically addresses loss and damage.
To prevent severe damage to vital climate-regulating ecosystems, **Vanuatu has formally proposed the recognition of ecocide as an independent crime under the International Criminal Court**.
---

**Mr President – Sustainable Development**  
In 2019, Vanuatu presented its first **Voluntary National Review (VNR)**, highlighting strong progress despite extreme climate vulnerability.
The **Summit of the Future** further aims to rally collective support for delivering the 2030 Agenda, the **Addis Ababa Action Agenda**, and the **Paris Agreement** more swiftly and intelligently.
We remain on the front lines of a climate emergency that not only threatens sustainable development, but also forces us into **unsustainable levels of debt** to finance recovery from natural disasters due to the lack of affordable alternatives.
COVID-19 and violent tropical cyclones exposed the **fragility of our health infrastructure** and the urgent need for a system capable of meeting our population’s needs and withstanding climate change and related disasters.
We call on the **World Health Organization** and SIDS partners to collaborate in improving access to **sustainable health financing**—supporting our efforts to prevent and control non-communicable diseases and build climate-resilient health systems.


  
     1491     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_WSM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

The effects of climate change are being lived in real time.
Climate change remains one of the gravest concerns for all countries, especially SIDS; its impacts are more extensively felt due to our special circumstances and the lack of capacity to respond quickly and effectively.
Unless substantial investments are made to mitigate climate change, boost adaptation, and build more resilient economies, we face urgent climate and financial risks.
Climate change also has significant security implications for our food, water and energy supplies, competition over natural resources, loss of livelihoods, climaterelated disasters, and potentially forced migration.
We must do more to turn the tide, to honour our commitments and obligations, and to take urgent and ambitious climate action now.
Our expectations for the upcoming COP29 in Azerbaijan, include securing an agreement on an NCQG that is truly fit for purpose.
Excellencies,  
We must keep global temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius.
In this era of unprecedented sea level rise international law must evolve to meet the climate crisis and the disproportionate effect it has on SIDs.
Earlier this week AOSIS Leaders adopted a Declaration of sea level Rise and statehood.
No matter the physical changes wrought by the climate crisis, we will remain sovereign states unless we choose otherwise.
The protection of our mangroves and reef systems increases the resilience to climate change-driven erosion and flooding, supporting healthy ecosystems and the sustainable well-being of coastal communities.
SIDS are in the crossfire of multiple crises: climate change, the economic and social repercussions of COVID-19, which many of us still haven’t fully recovered from.
These disasters will only increase and intensify as long as climate change remains unaddressed.


  
     1492     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_YEM_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

This includes not only immediate humanitarian aid and stronger accountability mechanisms—especially in areas controlled by the militias—but also greater investment in infrastructure, healthcare, education, sustainable development, and national capacity to manage the impacts of climate change, which in the past two months alone has left hundreds dead and thousands displaced.


  
     1493     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ZAF_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

As signatory to the Paris Agreement, we are contributing our fair share towards the global effort, and have a Just Energy Transition Plan to guide our low-carbon, climate resilient development.
The climate crisis is now a full-blown climate emergency.
Despite being least responsible for climate change, developing economy countries and particularly African countries are on the front line.
As South Africa we remain committed to contributing our fair share to reduce global emissions, guided by the principle of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities.
We have adaptation and mitigation programmes and policies in place, and have passed a Climate Change Bill to further support our emissions reduction targets.
It is essential that climate actions do not deepen global inequality or stifle the developmental aspirations of the Global South.
The industrialised nations are not honouring their climate commitments, and we repeat the call for predictable and sustainable financing for climate action.
We must  operationalise the agreed-upon climate financing and capacity building instruments to advance mitigation and adaptation.


  
     1494     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ZMB_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Mr. President,
Climate Change and extreme weather conditions threaten the very existence and balance of the world as we know it.
It is clear that efforts to raise the standard of living for the world's poor are being adversely affected by the effects of Climate Change.
This, and similar scenarios in our region, underscore the need to build local resilience and climate adaptation through various interventions including, among others, climate financing from both public and private SOUrces.
In this regard, the need for the full actualisation of the Loss and Damage Fund to help developing countries cope with climate related disasters and extreme weather events cannot be overemphasized.
We urge Member States to focus their energies on achieving measurable outcomes at the forthcoming COP29 accordingly.
Additionally, there is need to build capacities for Least Developed Countries (LDCs) to access other innovative financing measures such as debt-for-climate swaps and green and blue bonds, among others.
Hence, there is need to bridge the gap in digital technologies including Artificial Intelligence, to promote efficiencies in health, climate, sustainable infrastructure, energy, agriculture and other global development priorities.


  
     1495     
   
FILE: UNGA79_2024_ZWE_79_2024_CLIMATE.txt
  

Our world is besieged by numerous global challenges, both natural and man-made.
Sustainable development cannot be achieved without peace, and peace cannot be sustained without addressing the root causes of conflict, chief among them poverty, inequality, intolerance, resource scarcity exacerbated by climate change, and unwarranted external interference in the internal affairs of some States.
Climate change, geopolitical conflicts, and economic disparities continue to pose substantial barriers to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda.
The devastating impact of climate change is our common challenge that requires collective action to enable vulnerable communities to adapt while at the same time mitigating the impact.
The adverse impact of the punitive illegal unilateral sanctions, compounded by the exigencies of climate change, present real barriers to our developmental trajectory.
